Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and the trading price of our Common Stock. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business The VFX and animation industries are highly competitive and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed. The VFX industry is an intensely competitive sector of the entertainment industry. Multiple entities, including VFX companies, digital content production companies and animation studios often bid to provide VFX services for the same feature film or cross platform advertising projects, and certain of these entities have greater financial, creative and managerial resources than we do. In addition, large major motion picture studios have developed or acquired the capability to provide such services in house. Moreover, we believe foreign competitors and competitors with operations or subcontractors in countries such as South Korea, China and India may become an increasing source of competition, due largely to their access to low-cost, high-skilled labor. The full-length, animated feature films industry, which is another intensely competitive sector of the entertainment industry, includes Disney / Pixar, DreamWorks and a number of other studios and independent film production companies. We expect the competition from other animated films to intensify as movie studios continue to develop the capability to internally produce CG imagery. Continuing technological advances may also significantly reduce barriers to entry and decrease the production time for animated films, resulting in further competition. If we are unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors in the visual effects or animation industry, our revenues, margins and market share could be adversely affected, any of which could significantly harm our business. We are seeking to take on increasingly more substantial roles in the creation, production and marketing of digital content both for feature films and advertising, and may not be able to accomplish this growth. A key feature of our growth strategy is to grow the portion of our business in which we participate in the creation, production and marketing of feature films and advertising. Doing so presents significant challenges and subjects our business to significant risks. For example, we face substantial competition in these areas, and do not have as extensive a history of operating in these areas as some of our competitors. If we are unsuccessful in increasing the portion of our business that is devoted to the creation, production and marketing of feature films and advertising, our ability to grow our business could be significantly limited. Our success depends on certain key personnel. Our performance to date has been and will continue to be largely dependent on the talents, efforts and performance of our senior management and key technical personnel, particularly John C. Textor, Jonathan F. Teaford and Ed J. Ulbrich, who generally have significant experience with our company and substantial relationships and reputations within the entertainment industry. Certain of our executive officers and top production executives have entered into employment and noncompetition agreements. We do not currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Ulbrich, or with most of our key creative, technical and engineering personnel. However, while it is customary in the entertainment industry to use employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key executive personnel, these agreements do not guarantee us the continued services of such employees. In addition, we do not currently have employment agreements with most of our key creative, technical and engineering personnel. The loss of our executive officers or our other key personnel, particularly with little or no notice, could cause delays on projects and could have an adverse impact on our client and industry relationships, our business, operating results or financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We rely on highly skilled and qualified personnel, and if we are unable to continue to attract and retain such qualified personnel it will adversely affect our businesses. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified creative, technical and managerial personnel. We expect competition for personnel with the specialized creative and technical skills needed to create our products and provide our services will continue to intensify as film studios build or expand in-house visual effects and animation capabilities. We often hire individuals on a project-by-project basis, and individuals who work on one or more projects for us may not be available to work on future projects. If we have difficulty identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such qualified personnel, or incur significant costs in order to do so, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease significantly. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result of these fluctuations, financial planning basis may not necessarily be meaningful. Accordingly, you should not rely on our annual and quarterly results of operations as any indication of future performance. Each of the risk factors described in this "—Risks Related to Our Business" section, and the following factors, may affect our operating results: •our ability to continue to attract clients for our services and products; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; •our focus on long-term goals over short-term results; the results of our investments in high risk projects, such as film co-production projects; •general economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to our industries; •changes in business cycles that affect the markets in which we sell our products and services; and •geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. In response to these fluctuations, the market price of our Common Stock could decrease significantly in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our business has historically been cyclical and seasonal in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as client budgeting and buying patterns in the advertising and entertainment industries generally. The cyclicality and seasonality in our business could become more pronounced and may cause our operating results to fluctuate more widely. We have a history of losses and may continue to suffer losses in the future. We have a history of losses. We incurred a net loss before non-controlling interests for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $140.7 million. A substantial portion of the expenses in this period was due to non-cash charges for such items as depreciation and amortization, charges related to fair values of warrants and other debt-related liabilities and stock-based compensation expense. Absent these non-cash charges, we incurred a net loss of $33.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. If we cannot become profitable, our financial condition will deteriorate, and we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. We intend to co-produce or invest in feature film projects, which involve substantial financial risk. As part of our growth strategy, we may co-produce or invest in feature film projects that require a substantial capital investment. We cannot predict the financial success of any such project because the 22 Table of Contents revenue derived from the distribution of a motion picture depends primarily upon our acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. The financial success of a motion picture also depends upon the public's acceptance of competing films, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and unauthorized copying and distribution of feature films, general economic conditions, and other tangible and intangible factors, none of which can be predicted with certainty. We expect to co-produce or invest in a limited number of such projects per year as part of our growth strategy. However, we have not yet co-produced a feature film and may never do so. In addition, the commercial failure of just one co-production project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, both in the year of release and in future years. One of our operating subsidiaries is party to a joint marketing and production VFX services agreement that requires it to make substantial minimum guaranteed payments; if our operating subsidiary is not able to utilize effectively the studio facilities created pursuant to the terms of this agreement, our subsidiary may not be able to satisfy its payment obligations under this agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results and/or consolidated financial condition. One of our operating subsidiaries is party to a joint marketing and production VFX services agreement with a company headquartered in Mumbai, India. In consideration for this company creating and staffing studio facilities in Mumbai and London, England, through which our subsidiary is to provide VFX services to its clients worldwide, our subsidiary is obligated under the terms of this agreement to guarantee to the Mumbai company specified minimum monthly levels of production revenue generated at these facilities from our subsidiary's VFX projects, in the following estimated annual amounts (based on the U.S. dollar/British pound exchange rate as of December 31, 2011, as applied to those payments under the agreement denominated in British pounds): $17.5 million for the first year of the three-year minimum term of the agreement, $26.6 million for the second year of such term, and $26.2 million for the third year of such term. These payments are required to be made irrespective of whether and to what extent the staff employed at these facilities are working on our subsidiary's VFX projects. In the event that our subsidiary is not able to keep the staff at these facilities fully occupied with its VFX projects, our subsidiary may not be able to satisfy its payment obligations under this agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results and/or consolidated financial condition. We may not be able to implement our strategies of entering into the film production business effectively or at all. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to successfully develop VFX-driven and animated feature films by leveraging the talents of our key artistic personnel, their experience with VFX and animation production and our proprietary technology. As a company, however, we have not invested capital in the production or distribution of feature films. Entry into the film production business presents significant challenges and subjects our business to significant risks, including those risks set forth below. The inability to successfully manage these challenges could adversely affect our potential success in the film production business with respect to VFX-driven films, animated films, or both. Such failures would significantly limit our ability to grow our business and could also divert significant resources from our digital production and other businesses. Our successful entry into the film production business faces various risks and challenges, including: •the success of our film production business will be primarily dependent on audience acceptance of our films, which is extremely difficult to predict; 23 Table of Contents •only a relatively few "hit" films account for a significant portion of total revenue in the film industry and any failure by us to produce "hit" films could cause revenue generated from our proposed film production business to fall below expectations; •the production and marketing of VFX-driven and animated films is capital-intensive and our capacity to generate cash from our films may be insufficient to meet our anticipated capital requirements; •delays and increased expenditures due to creative problems, technical difficulties, talent availability, accidents, natural disasters or other events beyond the control of the production companies and distributors; •the entrance of additional film studios into the VFX-driven and animated film market, which may result in increased competition for visual effects-driven and animated film audiences and for talented computer graphics animators and technical staff; •the costs of producing and marketing feature films have steadily increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit or compete against other films; •film production is subject to seasonal variations based on the timing of theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases and a short-term negative impact on our business during a time of high seasonal demand (such as might result from a natural disaster or a terrorist attack during the time of one of our theatrical or home entertainment releases) could have a disproportionate effect on our results for the year; •a strike by one or more of the labor unions or similar groups that provide personnel essential to the production of feature films could delay or halt our proposed film production activities; •we have no experience producing or releasing feature films and the strain on our personnel from the effort required to produce such feature films and the time required for creative development of future feature films may hinder our ability to consistently release VFX-driven and animated feature films; and •the profitable distribution of a motion picture depends in large part on the availability of one or more capable distributors who are able to arrange for appropriate advertising and promotion, proper release dates and bookings in first-run and other theaters and any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote one of the motion pictures which we may produce or to promote competitors' motion pictures to a greater extent than they promote ours, or our inability to enter into profitable distribution arrangements with such distributors, could have an adverse effect on our proposed film production business. We may not be able to achieve the planned scale or pace of growth in our animation feature film studio business. The projected revenues and success of our animation feature film studio business are substantially dependent on achieving large-scale growth over a short period of time and we may be unable to achieve this anticipated scale or pace of growth. We have limited experience operating an animation studio and developing and producing full-length, animated feature films, and our animation business has not generated and currently does not generate any revenues, each of which makes it challenging to evaluate the prospects of our animation business and design and implement our animation business model. In addition, animated films typically take longer to produce than live-action films, increasing the uncertainties inherent in their production and distribution. Because of these uncertainties and risks, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to achieve the scale or pace of growth as planned, and furthermore, any period of rapid growth could place a significant strain on our resources and 24 Table of Contents increase demands on our management, our information and reporting systems and our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such failures to achieve or effectively manage the anticipated growth of our animation business could adversely affect this and our other businesses, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. A substantial part of our business relies upon the success and popularity of motion picture entertainment containing 3D imagery. If other forms of entertainment prove to be more attractive to consumers than 3D motion pictures, our growth and operating results could be harmed. A substantial part of our business relies on the popularity of 3D motion pictures, both animated and otherwise. If other forms of motion pictures, or other entertainment with which 3D motion pictures compete for consumers' leisure time and disposable income, such as conventional motion pictures, television, concerts, amusement parks and sporting events, become more popular than 3D motion pictures, our business and operating results could be harmed. Acquisitions we pursue in our industry and related industries could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our shareholders and other consequences harmful to our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions in our industry and related industries. We may not be able to consummate such acquisitions, which could adversely impact our growth. If we do consummate acquisitions, integrating an acquired company, business or technology may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including: •increased expenses due to transaction and integration costs; •potential liabilities of the acquired businesses; •potential adverse tax and accounting effects of the acquisitions; •diversion of capital and other resources from our existing businesses; •diversion of our management's attention during the acquisition process and any transition periods; •loss of key employees of the acquired businesses following the acquisition; and •inaccurate budgets and projected financial statements due to inaccurate valuation assessments of the acquired businesses. Foreign acquisitions also involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Our evaluations of potential acquisitions may not accurately assess the value or prospects of acquisition candidates and the anticipated benefits from our future acquisitions may not materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our Common Stock, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Interruption or failure of our information technology systems could impair our ability to effectively and timely provide our services and products, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our future success is significantly dependent on our ability to provide visual effects services that consistently meet our client's product development schedules. We rely on our software applications, hardware and other information technology and communications systems for the development and provision of our visual effects services and will depend on such technologies for production of our 25 Table of Contents animated feature films. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our facilities are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes and hurricanes and are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our Venice or Playa Vista, California facilities, our Vancouver, British Columbia facilities, or our Port St. Lucie, Florida facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our projects and our ability to deliver services. An error or defect in the software, a failure in the hardware, and a failure of our backup facilities could delay our delivery of products and services and could result in significantly increased production costs, hinder our ability to retain and attract clients and damage our brand if clients believe we are unreliable. Given our reliance on our industry relationships, it could also result in a decrease in our revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. We cannot predict the effect that rapid technological change may have on our business or industry. The entertainment industry in general, and the VFX and animation segments thereof in particular, are rapidly evolving, primarily due to technological developments. The rapid growth of technology and shifting consumer tastes prevent us from being able to accurately predict the overall effect that technological growth may have on our potential revenue and profitability. Furthermore, because we are required to provide advanced digital imagery products to continue to win business we must ensure that our production environment integrates the latest tools and techniques developed in the industry. This requires us to either develop these capabilities by upgrading our own proprietary software, which can result in substantial research and development costs and substantial capital expenditures for new equipment, or to purchase third-party licenses, which can result in significant expenditures. In the event we seek to obtain third-party licenses, we cannot guarantee that they will be available or, once obtained, will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to develop and effectively market new technologies that adequately or competitively address the needs of these changing industries, it could have an adverse effect on our business and growth prospects. Our revenue may be adversely affected if we fail to protect our proprietary technology or fail to enhance or develop new technology. We depend on our proprietary technology to develop and produce certain of our products and provide certain of our services. With respect to our proprietary technology, we own seven patents registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO"), have several patent applications pending before the USPTO, and plan to file additional applications in the future. We also rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret protection and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. We generally enter into non-disclosure or license agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, technology and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software, technology and other proprietary information, without authorization, or to develop similar or superior technology independently. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, and our non-disclosure and license agreements may not be enforceable. In addition, we may be required to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial 26 Table of Contents costs and diversion of resources and could have an adverse effect on our business and/or our operating results. Third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us in the future. We also rely on certain technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated and used with internally developed software. These third-party technology licenses may not in the future be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of any of these technology licenses could result in delays in performance of work until we identify, license and integrate equivalent technology, and we may not be able to identify, license or integrate any such equivalent technology in a timely manner or at all. Any resulting delays in our performance could damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues during the period of delay, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. Companies in the visual effects and animation segment of the entertainment industry are subject to the possibility of claims that their products, services or techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement or misappropriation claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from such claims) against us may be asserted or prosecuted, regardless of their merit, and any such assertions or prosecutions may adversely affect our business and/or our operating results. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we would incur significant costs and diversion of resources relating to the defense of such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business and/or our operating results. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license of a third party's intellectual property rights; however, under such circumstances such a license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Motion picture piracy may affect our ability to maximize our revenues. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia (including South Korea, China and Taiwan), the countries of the former Soviet Union and other former Eastern bloc countries. The Motion Picture Export Association, the American Motion Picture Marketing Association and the American Motion Picture Export Association monitor the progress and efforts made by various countries to limit or prevent piracy. In the past, these various trade associations have enacted voluntary embargoes on motion picture exports to certain countries in order to pressure the governments of those countries to become more aggressive in preventing motion picture piracy. In addition, the U.S. government has publicly considered implementing trade sanctions against specific countries which, in the opinion of the U.S. government, do not prevent copyright infringement of U.S.-produced motion pictures; however, future voluntary industry embargoes or U.S. government trade sanctions may not be enacted. If enacted, such trade sanctions could impact the amount of revenue that we realize from the international exploitation of feature films, depending upon the countries subject to such action and the duration of such action. If embargoes or sanctions are not enacted or if other measures are not taken, we may lose an indeterminate amount of additional revenue as a result of motion picture piracy. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. Our visual effects and animation projects generally utilize actors, directors, and writers who are members of the Screen Actors Guild, Directors Guild of America, and Writers Guild of America, respectively, pursuant to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. Many projects also employ members of a number of other unions, including, among others, the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees. A strike by one or more of the unions or guilds that provide personnel essential to the production of our projects could delay or halt our ongoing production 27 Table of Contents activities, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. Our feature films segment depends on revenues from certain significant relationships, and harm to or loss of these relationships could harm our business. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers to whom we have provided digital production services on large feature film projects. These customers generally have been major U.S. motion picture studios and such large projects usually extend from six to 18 months. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, contracts with two major studios for work in connection with feature films accounted in the aggregate for approximately 72% and 54%, respectively, of our revenues from this segment for those periods. The revenues derived from one of these major studios accounted for a material portion of our revenues during these periods primarily as the result of our being engaged by such studio on a single, large-scale, multi-year project, which project has ended. Significant customers over the last few years have included Walt Disney Pictures, Columbia Pictures, Paramount Pictures, 20th Century Fox, Universal Pictures, New Regency Productions and Warner Bros. Pictures. We expect that in the future we will continue to enter into contracts with customers who have historically represented a significant concentration of our revenues from this segment. If such contracts were terminated, our revenues from this segment and net income could significantly decline. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain and further existing relationships with significant customers, as well as develop relationships potential new customers. Any adverse change in our relationship with any of the major motion picture studios or other of our principal customers could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that our customer concentration will not change significantly in the near future. The markets for visual effects services are dominated by a relatively small number of customers. We may not be able to retain our largest customers or attract additional customers, and our customers may not require or purchase services in the same quantities as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, a significant reduction in revenues from these customers or our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers each could significantly harm our business. Film production incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries and states where we do not have operations, or our failure to continue to enjoy such incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries and states where we do have operations, could affect our ability to secure work on visual effects and animation projects. Production incentives and subsidies for feature film production are widely used throughout the entertainment industry and are important in helping film studios and production companies to offset production costs. Many countries and states have programs designed to attract feature film production. Incentives and subsidies are used to reduce feature film production costs and such incentives and subsidies take different forms, including direct government rebates, sale and leaseback transactions or transferable tax credits As a result, film studios and production companies may send their visual effects and animation work to companies in foreign countries and states where we do not have operations in order to take advantage of the incentives and subsidies offered in such places. In addition, we may enjoy film production incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries (e.g., Canada) or states where we do have operations which may not be available in the future. Any diminution in our ability to secure work on VFX and animation projects due to such incentives and subsidies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 28 Table of Contents If we do not continue to receive governmental grant funding, primarily from the State of Florida and the Cities of West Palm Beach and Port St. Lucie, Florida, or otherwise fail to meet the target thresholds for continued grant funding, it may adversely affect our operations. Grants from third parties, primarily the State of Florida and the Cities of West Palm Beach and Port St. Lucie, Florida, have been and will continue to be an important source of funding for the construction and establishment of our digital studio in Florida. These grants are generally structured to be funded over a three to five-year period and require that we meet specified target thresholds with respect to business initiation, capital investment and job creation in order to receive the scheduled disbursements. In particular, in order to receive our complete grant funding, without penalty, from the State of Florida and the City of Port St. Lucie, we will be required, by December 31, 2014, to have, among other things, (i) created since our inception at least 500 new jobs in the State of Florida, each with an average annual wage of at least $64,233, and (ii) invested, with development partners, at least $50,000,000 in the State of Florida. As of March 1, 2012, we had 272 employees in the State of Florida, at an average annual salary in excess of the required $65,000, and, as of February 22, 2011, we had satisfied the condition to invest, with our development partners, at least $50,000,000 in the State of Florida. The $8 million remaining under the cash component of our grant from the City of West Palm Beach is disbursable in four scheduled installments ranging in amount from $1 million to $3 million, each of which is subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions precedent, including, among others: (i) by February 28, 2012, the arrangement of the phase 1 construction financing for the campus of our subsidiary, Digital Domain Institute, Inc., the securing of a temporary campus facility for DDI, and the commencement of the accreditation process for DDI; (ii) by September 30, 2012, the commencement by FSU and DDI of classes at this temporary facility with a combined total of 50 students and full-time employees; (iii) by December 31, 2012, commencement of phase 1 construction of DDI's campus, and the enrollment of a combined total of 100 FSU and DDI students at DDI's temporary facility; and (iv) by December 31, 2014, the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the phase 1 construction project and the enrollment of a combined total of 250 FSU and DDI students at DDI's campus; in addition, if there are fewer than a combined total of 200 FSU and DDI students enrolled at DDI's campus on December 31, 2015, we will be required to repay $2 million of the cash grant received from the City of West Palm Beach, and, if there are less than a combined total of 1,000 FSU and DDI students enrolled at this campus after December 31, 2016, we will be required to repay an additional $2 million of the funds received under this cash grant. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, with respect to the conditions described in clause (i) of the preceding sentence, we have secured a temporary campus facility for DDI and commenced the accreditation process for DDI, and are in discussions with the city of West Palm Beach to extend the date by which the phase 1 construction financing for the DDI campus must be arranged; we expect to satisfy the other conditions described in clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of such sentence in a timely manner. If the applicable agencies or authorities controlling the disbursements of such grants determine that we have not met such thresholds or are otherwise no longer qualified to received continued grant funding, the loss of this funding or any subsequent obligation to repay any such funding could adversely impact the growth of our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The inability to successfully manage the growth of our business may have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect to experience growth in the number of employees and the scope of our operations. Such growth will result in increased responsibilities for our management. If our management is unable to successfully manage expenses in a manner that allows us to both improve operations and at the same time pursue potential market opportunities, the growth of our business could be adversely impacted, which may, in turn, negatively affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, we believe 29 Table of Contents that a critical contributor to our success has been our creative culture. As we attempt to grow and alter our business to focus increasingly on the creation, production and marketing of visual imagery, and as we experience change in response to the requirements of being a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our future success. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our proposed education business, we could face significant monetary liabilities, fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. As a provider of higher education, DDI will be subject to extensive regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the "Higher Education Act"), and related regulations subject higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act ("Title IV programs") to significant regulatory scrutiny. The Higher Education Act mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the federal government through the U.S. Department of Education (the "Department of Education"); (2) the accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education (the "Secretary of Education") and (3) state education regulatory bodies. The regulations, standards and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change, and changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards or policies could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs or costs of doing business. Because DDI will be operating in a highly regulated industry, we will be subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and related lawsuits by government agencies, accrediting agencies and third parties. For example, the Department of Education regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in Title IV programs and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any of these laws, regulations, standards or policies, we could lose our access to Title IV program funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Findings of noncompliance also could result in our being required to pay monetary damages, or being subjected to fines, penalties, injunctions, restrictions on our access to Title IV program funds or other censure that could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to obtain or maintain accreditation for DDI, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. Institutional accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education is required in order for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. Increased scrutiny of accreditors by the Secretary of Education in connection with the Department of Education's recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accreditors. Our failure to obtain accreditation or the loss of accreditation would, among other things, render DDI ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on our education business. 30 Table of Contents The success of our education business depends on our ability to develop new programs in a cost-effective manner on a timely basis, develop awareness among potential students and enroll and retain students. The success of our education business depends in part on our ability to create the content of our academic programs and develop these new programs in a cost-effective manner that meets the needs of prospective students in a timely manner. Building awareness of DDI and the programs we plan to offer is critical to our ability to attract prospective students. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise DDI's educational programs, our ability to attract and enroll prospective students in such programs could be adversely affected. It is also critical to DDI's success that we attract and enroll our students in a cost-effective manner and that enrolled students remain active in our programs. We have identified significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If the significant deficiencies or material weaknesses persist or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, our ability to both timely and accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, we identified several significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. A deficiency in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect financial statement misstatements on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company's financial reporting. We identified the following control deficiencies as significant deficiencies as of December 31, 2010, which remain as significant deficiencies as of December 31, 2011: •our company had not maintained sufficient records of the actions and meeting minutes of its board and did not have a systemic process to manage its contracts and agreements; and •our company had not maintained sufficient controls over the financial reporting for its Canadian subsidiary. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The following significant deficiencies were identified as material weaknesses as of December 31, 2010, which remain as material weaknesses as of December 31, 2011: •our company lacked control over the revenue recognition reporting for its Canadian subsidiary; and •our company had not implemented an adequate process to consolidate its intercompany accounts and as a result could not conduct a monthly close on a timely basis. While we have taken a number of remedial actions to address these significant deficiencies and material weaknesses, we cannot predict the outcome of our remediation efforts at this time. Each of the significant deficiencies and material weaknesses described above could result in a misstatement of our accounts or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, or any measures we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the significant deficiencies or material weaknesses described above or avoid potential future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. 31 Table of Contents Changes in U.S., regional or global economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. A decline in economic conditions in the United States or in other regions of the world could lead to a decrease in discretionary consumer spending, which in turn could adversely affect demand for feature films and box office revenue. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from entertainment products such as feature films. Such events could cause a decrease in the demand for both the visual effects and animation services we offer as well as for the feature films we propose to produce, either of which would have an adverse effect on our profitability and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our Common Stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our Common Stock may decline. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition to the risk factors described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may cause the price of our Common Stock to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, productions, acquisitions or capital commitments; •changes in financial estimates by analysts; •variations in quarterly operating results; •the overall performance of the equity markets; •general economic conditions; •terrorist acts; •litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors; •future sales of our Common Stock; and •investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in our industries. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or make projections that exceed our actual results, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Furthermore, such analysts publish their own projections regarding our actual results. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities and industry analysts' projections. 32 Table of Contents Concentration of ownership among our officers, directors, large shareholders and their affiliates may prevent other shareholders from influencing corporate decisions. Our officers, directors, greater than 5% shareholders and their affiliates beneficially own or control, directly or indirectly, a majority of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. As a result, if some of these persons or entities act together, they will have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying an acquisition or cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Some provisions of our charter documents and Florida law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Florida law, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. These provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: •permit our board of directors to issue up to 24,900,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in our control; •provide that all vacancies on our board of directors, including those resulting from newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; and •provide that special meetings of our shareholders may, except as otherwise required by law, be called only by the chairman of our board, our board of directors or one or more shareholders holding shares of our Common Stock representing at least 50% of the combined voting power of our Common Stock. In addition, as a Florida corporation, we are subject to the Florida Business Corporation Act, which provides that a person who acquires shares in an "issuing public corporation," as defined in the statute, in excess of certain specified thresholds generally will not have any voting rights with respect to such shares unless such voting rights are approved by the holders of a majority of the votes of each class of securities entitled to vote separately, excluding shares held or controlled by the acquiring person. The Florida Business Corporation Act also contains a statute which provides that an affiliated transaction with an interested shareholder generally must be approved by (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our voting shares, other than the shares beneficially owned by the interested shareholder, or (ii) a majority of the disinterested directors. Future sales of shares of our Common Stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 29, 2011, we had 41,054,124 shares of our Common Stock outstanding, all of which are or will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times upon the expiration of lock-up agreements entered into with the underwriters of our initial public offering and subject to vesting requirements and the requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In addition, the underwriters may, in their sole discretion, release all or some portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements prior to expiration of 33 Table of Contents the lock-up period. Sales of a substantial number of such shares upon such expiration, or the perception that such sales may occur, or early release, of the lock-up agreements could cause our share price to fall. In addition, we intend to file a Registration Statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 11,660,895 shares of our Common Stock reserved for issuance under our Amended and Restated 2010 Stock Plan (the "2010 Stock Plan"). These shares may be sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the 180-day lock-up period and other restrictions provided under the terms of the plan or award agreement. In addition, there are 6,715,761 shares of our Common Stock underlying certain convertible, exercisable and exchangeable securities issued outside of our 2010 Stock Plan that are immediately convertible, exercisable, or exchangeable, as applicable, which may be sold in the public market upon the conversion, exercise or exchange of such securities. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result of our required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to ensure such compliance. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (for example, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation, investor perceptions of us and the trading price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 