Risk Factors Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT could have a material and adverse effect on us and on the value of our securities. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. If we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face significant adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: ·we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; ·we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and ·unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. stockholders that are individuals would be taxed on our dividends at the current maximum U.S. federal income tax rate currently of 20%, and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations ("Treasury Regulations") that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements on a continuing basis, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, sources of our gross income and stockholder ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. As a result of these factors, our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our securities. To remain qualified as a REIT, we will likely rely on the availability of equity and debt capital to fund our business. To remain qualified as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Because of REIT distribution requirements, we may be unable to fund capital expenditures, such as our developments, future acquisitions or property upgrades or renovations from operating cash flow. Therefore, we may be dependent on the public equity and debt capital markets and private lenders to fund our growth and other capital expenditures. However, we may not be able to obtain this capital on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: ·general market conditions; ·our current debt levels and the number of properties subject to encumbrances; ·our current performance and the market’s perception of our growth potential; ·our cash flow and cash dividends; and ·the market price of our securities. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders, including those necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could materially and adversely affect us. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that have a material and adverse effect on us. Even if we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would cause our operating costs to increase, and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 27 In particular, various services provided at our properties generally cannot be provided directly by the property owner, but must be provided through TRSs that are treated as fully taxable corporations. To remain qualified as a REIT, we may be forced to limit the activities of our TRSs, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. To remain qualified as a REIT, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of the securities of one or more TRSs. Certain of our activities, such as our third-party development, construction, management and leasing services, must be conducted through our TRSs for us to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, certain non-customary services must be provided by a TRS or an independent contractor. If the revenues from such activities create a risk that the value of our TRSs, based on revenues or otherwise, approaches the 25% threshold, we will be forced to curtail such activities or take other steps to remain under the 25% threshold. Since the 25% threshold is based on value, it is possible that the IRS could successfully contend that the value of our TRSs exceeds the 25% threshold even if our TRSs account for less than 25% of our consolidated revenues, income or cash flow. Our third-party services generally are performed by our TRSs. Consequently, income earned from our third-party services and non-customary services will be subject to regular federal income taxation and state and local income taxation where applicable, thus reducing the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A TRS is not permitted to directly or indirectly operate or manage a "hotel, motel or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis." We previously have been advised by counsel that the method of operating our TRSs will not be considered to constitute such an activity. However, future Treasury Regulations or other guidance interpreting the applicable provisions might adopt a different approach, or the IRS might disagree with the conclusion of our counsel. In such event we might be forced to change our method of operating our TRSs, or one or more of the TRSs could fail to qualify as a TRS, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any of the foregoing circumstances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and we could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS, will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. The failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would also cause it to become subject to federal state and corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities. The maximum tax rate applicable to "qualified dividend income" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of the stock of REITs, including our securities. We may pay taxable dividends in the form our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common stock at the election of each stockholder. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on such dividends, it may be viewed as economically equivalent to a dividend reduction and put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay taxable dividends in the form of our common stock and cash, although we may choose to do so in the future. 28 Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets will not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test, if certain requirements are not met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the respective TRS. These increased costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in "prohibited transactions" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales or otherwise as taxable dispositions for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, subject to certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. Re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease," thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification "asset tests" or the "income tests" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments or to forgo otherwise attractive investment opportunities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the type and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid suffering adverse tax consequences, including potentially losing our REIT status. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. New legislation, regulation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, regulatory, administrative or judicial action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our stock. The U.S. federal income tax rules that affect REITs are under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our stock. Risks Related to the Copper Beech Acquisition If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of the CB Portfolio, we could be materially and adversely affected. In February 2013, we entered into purchase and sale agreements to acquire interests in a portfolio of 35 student housing properties, one undeveloped land parcel and corporate office building held by the members of Copper Beech Townhome Communities, LLC ("CBTC") and Copper Beech Townhome Communities (PA), LLC ("CBTC PA", together with CBTC, "Copper Beech" or the "Sellers") (the “CB Portfolio”). On January 30, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the Sellers’ remaining interests in 29 of the student housing properties, one undeveloped land parcel, and one other student housing property. The CB Portfolio Acquisition represents the largest acquisition of a property portfolio that we have ever acquired. The transaction involves the integration of a portfolio of properties that has previously operated independently. Successful integration of these operations will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate standards, controls, procedures and policies. This transaction also poses other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the operations of the CB Portfolio. We may not be able to integrate these operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. If we have difficulties with any of these integrations, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the transaction, and this may hurt our business and financial results. In addition, we may experience greater-than-expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the operations of the CB Portfolio. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the following: ·inability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees; ·inability to compete in new markets; ·increased costs or increases in taxable income due to restructuring or other steps required in connection with the integration of the CB Portfolio as a result of our compliance with the tax requirements applicable to REITs under the Code; ·projections of estimated future revenues, cost savings or operating metrics that we developed during the due diligence and integration planning process may not be achieved; ·the value of the acquired properties or the market price of our common stock may decline; ·adverse impact on the effectiveness of our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; ·unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; diversion of our management’s attention away from other business concerns; ·unanticipated expenses and liabilities associated with the tax indemnification agreement which we entered into with the Sellers in connection with the transaction; ·exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities relating to the CB Portfolio; and ·potential underinsured losses on the CB Portfolio. 30 We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the CB Portfolio without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the CB Portfolio Acquisition will be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Failure to realize the intended benefits of the CB Portfolio Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, the market price of our common shares and our distributions to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended benefits of the CB Portfolio Acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 