ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risks factors described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition and our prospects. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating result. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our indebtedness and significant debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to grow and operate our business. We are a highly leveraged company and, as a result, have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness, excluding letters of credit, was $97.9 million and we had maximum availability for borrowings under our revolving credit facility of approximately $43.0 million, of which $21.75 million was utilized to purchase an Aircraft on October 1, 2012. Our senior credit facilities mature on June 24, 2013 and are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. Our substantial indebtedness could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt payments, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, or limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and future business opportunities. If we are unable to repay or refinance our senior credit facilities with new credit facilities on favorable terms or at all, we may need to seek financing through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities. We may be unable to repay our senior credit facilities when due, to refinance the credit facilities on favorable terms or at all or obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to grow and operate our business. We may be unable to access public or private debt markets to fund our operations and contractual commitments at competitive rates, on commercially reasonable terms, or in sufficient amounts. We depend, in part, upon borrowings under our credit facilities to fund our operations and contractual commitments. If we were called upon to fund all outstanding commitments, we may not have sufficient funds to do so. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. These factors include general economic conditions, disruptions or declines in the global capital markets, and our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. An adverse change in any or all of these factors may materially adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and contractual or financing commitments. If our business does not perform as expected, including if we generate less than anticipated revenue from our Aerial Services operations or encounter significant unexpected costs, we may fail to comply with the financial covenants under our existing credit facilities. If we do not comply with our financial covenants and we do not obtain a waiver or amendment, our lenders may accelerate payment of all amounts outstanding which would immediately become due and payable, together with accrued interest. Any default may require us to seek additional capital or modifications to our credit facilities, which may not be available or which may be costly. Additionally, our suppliers may require us to pay cash in advance or obtain letters of credit as a condition to selling us their products and services. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are unable to repay or refinance our outstanding unsecured subordinated promissory notes at or prior to maturity, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, the principal amount outstanding under our unsecured subordinated promissory notes, including accreted and unpaid interest, was $26.7 million, of which $12.9 million mature on June 30, 2015 and $13.8 million mature on June 30, 2016. At or prior to the maturity of the notes in 2015 and 2016, we will need to refinance the notes with additional indebtedness or repay them with cash from operations, which may include the sale of Aircranes, or the proceeds of future equity financings, none of which can be assured. We may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our senior credit facilities prohibit us from paying down principal on the unsecured subordinated promissory notes unless such payments are made with the proceeds of an equity offering in which we receive minimum net cash proceeds of $60.0 million. We may be unable to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all, or to negotiate more favorable terms to permit the repayment of our unsecured subordinated promissory notes, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or divestitures. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses or specific assets, form joint ventures or strategic alliances, and divest operations. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depend, in part, upon the integration between the businesses or assets involved; the performance of the underlying products, capabilities, or technologies; whether we incur unknown or contingent liabilities, and the management of the transacted operations. We have had limited experience with such integrations, and difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies could disrupt our business operations, divert management's time and attention and impair relationships with and risk the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance, and indemnifications. In addition, our cash from operations and borrowings available under our existing credit facility may not be sufficient to fund any acquisitions or strategic transactions we choose to make. As a result, in the event we engage in any acquisitions or strategic transactions we may need to seek additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing. Consolidations of joint ventures could also impact our results of operations or financial position. Divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results Our helicopter operations involve significant risks, which may result in hazards that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase the cost of our insurance. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a high degree of risk. Hazards such as aircraft accidents, mechanical failures, collisions, fire, and adverse weather may result in loss of life, serious injury to employees and other persons, damage to property, losses of equipment and revenues, and suspension or reduction of operations. The aerial services we provide and the missions we fly, which include firefighting and timber harvesting in confined spaces, can be hazardous. In addition, we ship our helicopters to various locations, which expose them to risks, including risks relating to piracy and inclement weather, when in transit. We maintain hull and liability insurance on our aircraft, which insures us against physical loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and against certain legal liabilities to others. In addition, we carry war risk, expropriation, confiscation, and nationalization insurance for our aircraft involved in international operations. In some instances, we are covered by indemnity agreements from our customers in lieu of, or in addition to, our insurance. In addition, we maintain product liability insurance for aircraft and aircraft components we manufacture. Our insurance will not cover any losses incurred pursuant to any performance provisions under agreements with our customers. Our insurance and indemnification arrangements may not cover all potential losses and are subject to deductibles, retentions, coverage limits, and coverage exceptions and, as a result, severe casualty losses or the expropriation or confiscation of significant assets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The insured value of one of our aircraft is typically lower than its replacement cost, and our aircraft are not insured for loss of use. The occurrence of an event 20 Table of Contents that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The loss of an aircraft, which we believe would take us at least six months to replace, could negatively impact our operations. Failure to maintain our safety record would seriously harm our ability to attract new customers and maintain our existing customers, and would increase our insurance costs. A favorable safety record is one of the primary factors a customer reviews in selecting an aviation provider. If we fail to maintain our safety and reliability record, our ability to attract new customers and maintain our current customers will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, safety violations could lead to increased regulatory scrutiny; increase our insurance rates and expense, which is a significant operating cost; or increase the difficulty of maintaining our existing insurance coverage in the future, which would adversely affect our operations. Because of the inherent risks in our helicopter operations, no safety program can guarantee accidents will not occur. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customer orders, delays in delivery of Aircranes, or customer breaches of purchase agreements may adversely affect our results of operations. The sale of Aircranes has a material effect on our financial results, and Aircrane sales have been a dominant factor in fluctuations in our year-over-year results. As we have expanded internationally and sought to make Aircrane sales in the difficult economic environment in the last few years, several potential customers have defaulted or not completed anticipated Aircrane sales. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customer orders for Aircranes, or delays in the delivery of Aircranes, would cause our financial performance to be below our expectations, and could cause us to fail to comply with our financial and reporting covenants contained in our senior credit facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our failure to timely collect our receivables could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We provide services to our customers for which we are customarily not paid in advance. We rely on the creditworthiness of our customers to collect on our receivables in a timely manner after we have billed for services previously provided. While we generally provide services pursuant to a written contract which determines the terms and conditions of payment to us by our customers, occasionally customers may dispute a bill and delay, contest, or not pay our receivable. Our failure to timely collect our receivables could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations and could cause us to fail to comply with the financial covenants in our senior credit facilities. The helicopter services business is highly competitive. Each of our segments faces significant competition. We compete for most of our work with other helicopter operators and, for some operations, with fixed-wing operators and ground-based alternatives. Many of our contracts are awarded after competitive bidding, and competition for those contracts is generally intense. The principal aspects of competition are safety, price, reliability, availability, and service. We have several major competitors and numerous small competitors operating in our aerial services markets. In the firefighting market, we compete heavily with both helicopter and fixed-wing operators. Our competitors may at times undercut our prices, especially if they are at risk of having too many idle aircraft. In the timber harvesting market, we compete with other heavy-lift helicopter operators, medium-lift helicopter operators, and ground-based solutions. In the manufacturing and MRO market, our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing, and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products or 21 Table of Contents provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and the competitive pressures we face may result in reduced revenues and market share. If we are unable to adjust our costs relative to our pricing, our profitability will suffer. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do, and may therefore be able to react to market conditions and compete more effectively than we do. Factors beyond our control, including weather and seasonal fluctuations, may reduce aircraft flight hours, which would affect our revenues and operations. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours, and a substantial portion of our direct costs is fixed. Flight hours could be negatively impacted by factors beyond our control and fluctuate depending on cyclical weather-related and seasonal limitations, which would affect our revenues and operations. In addition, our aircraft are not currently equipped to fly at night, reinforcing the seasonality of our business with more activity in the Northern Hemisphere during the summer months and less activity during the winter months. Poor visibility, high winds, and heavy precipitation can restrict the operation of helicopters and significantly reduce our flight hours. Reduced flight hours can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We budget for our operations based on historical weather information, but worse than expected weather could materially affect our results of operations. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major customers. In particular, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, 28.6%, 27.2%, and 24.4% of our revenues, respectively, were attributable to our contract with the U.S. Forest Service, 12.9%, 15.9%, and 13.8% of our revenues, respectively, were attributable to our contract with the Italian Ministry of Civil Protection, and 3.2%, 7.0%, and 12.3% of our revenues, respectively, were attributable to our contract with Samling Global. Several of our largest customers are governmental agencies or entities that may be subject to budget or other financial constraints. The economies of Greece and Italy in particular have been adversely affected by global financial pressures. In light of the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis, there are heightened risks associated with our future revenue attributable to, and our accounts receivable from, the Hellenic Fire Brigade, now contracted through NAMSA, and the Italian Ministry of Civil Protection. Should we lose one of our major customers for any reason, we may be unable to identify new opportunities sufficient to avoid a reduction in revenues and our business and financial condition could suffer. In addition, contracts with the majority of our significant customers are multi-year contracts; however, these contracts are periodically up for renewal or rebid. Renewal, or a successful rebid, is not guaranteed. Should we lose one of our major customers for any reason, we may be unable to identify new opportunities sufficient to avoid a reduction in our revenues and operating earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If one or more of these customers is disproportionately impacted by factors that affect its ability to pay us or to enter into new contracts, including general economic factors, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our backlog may be deferred or may not be realized. Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to derive from signed contracts, including oral contracts that have been subsequently memorialized in writing, or anticipated exercises of 22 Table of Contents customer extension options. For contracts that include a guaranteed number of hours, the value of the guaranteed hours is included in backlog. For CPH contracts, which depend on hours flown by our customers, we calculate the contribution to backlog based on contracted minimum hours. When a binding aircraft sale contract has been signed with a customer, the purchase price of the aircraft not included in current revenues is included in backlog. When we sign a contract giving a potential purchaser an option to purchase an aircraft which only becomes binding on a non-refundable payment of a material option fee, we do not include the purchase price of the aircraft in backlog until the non-refundable payment has been made and the contract is a binding purchase contract. A customer may default on a purchase contract that has become binding, and we may not be able to convert sales contract backlog into revenue. We calculate the contribution to backlog for some timber harvesting contracts based on our estimate of the cubic meters of high grade timber we expect to deliver under the contract based on our experience. As a result, our estimates of backlog for some of our timber harvesting contracts could be affected by variables beyond our control and may not be entirely realized, if at all. In addition, given the nature of our customers and our industry, there is a risk that our backlog may not be fully realized in the future. Failure to realize sales from our existing or future backlog would negatively impact our financial results. Some of our arrangements with customers are short-term, ad hoc, or "call when needed" and may not be renewed. We generate a large portion of our revenues from arrangements with customers with terms of less than six months, ad hoc arrangements, and "call when needed" contracts. In 2012, 2011, and 2010 for example, approximately 16%, 17%, and 24% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from such arrangements. There is a risk that customers may not continue to seek the same level of services from us as they have in the past or that they will not renew these arrangements or terminate them at short notice. Under "call when needed" contracts, we pre-negotiate rates for providing services that customers may request that we perform (but which we are not typically obligated to perform) depending on their needs. The rates we charge for these contingent services are higher than the rates under stand-by arrangements, and we attempt to schedule our aircraft to maximize our revenue from these types of contracts. The ultimate value we derive from such contracts is subject to factors beyond our control, such as the severity and duration of fire seasons. In the past, several of our larger contracts have not been renewed for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as the financial condition of our customers or their decision to move the services we provided to them in-house. If we are unable to reach any of these arrangements, we may be unable to replace these customers and our business and financial condition could suffer. If an accident made an Aircrane unavailable to us, our business could suffer. As of December 31, 2012, we had 18 Aircranes employed in providing Aerial Services. An accident could make an Aircrane unavailable to us temporarily or permanently. A sale of an Aircrane that is part of our fleet would also reduce the number of Aircranes available to provide Aerial Services. The purchase price of a used Aircrane is generally lower than the purchase price of a remanufactured Aircrane. Although we would expect to be able to maintain the level of our operations if we sell an Aircrane from our fleet through more efficient scheduling of our fleet or by allocating Aircranes remanufactured in our plant and held in inventory to Aerial Services operations, we may not always have the ability to maintain our desired level of Aerial Services operations with a reduced fleet and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Foreign, domestic, federal, and local government spending and mission priorities may change in a manner that materially and adversely affects our future revenues and limits our growth prospects. Our business depends upon continued government expenditures on programs that we support. These expenditures have not remained constant over time. Current foreign and domestic government spending levels on programs that we support may not be sustainable as a result of changes in government leadership, policies, or priorities. In addition, the economies of Greece and Italy in particular have been adversely affected by global financial pressures. In light of the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis, there are heightened risks associated with our accounts receivable from the Hellenic Fire Brigade and future revenue and accounts receivable from the Italian Ministry of Civil Protection. Additionally, our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed by the following: •budgetary constraints affecting government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding; •changes in government programs or requirements; •realignment of funds to changed government priorities; •government shutdowns (such as that which occurred during the U.S. Government's 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays in government appropriations processes; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government authorities; •adoption of new laws or regulations; and •general economic conditions. These or other factors could cause government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. A significant decline in overall government spending or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support could cause a material decline in our revenues and harm our financial results. Product liability and product warranty risks could adversely affect our operating results. We produce, repair, and overhaul complex aircraft and critical parts for aircraft. Failure of our aircraft or parts could give rise to substantial product liability and other damage claims. We maintain insurance to address this risk, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate for some claims and there is no guarantee that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additionally, aircraft and parts we manufacture for sale are subject to strict contractually established specifications using complex manufacturing processes. If we fail to meet the contractual requirements for a part, we may be subject to warranty costs to repair or replace the part itself and additional costs related to the investigation and inspection of non-complying parts. These costs are generally not insured. We establish warranty reserves that represent our estimate of the costs we expect to incur to fulfill our warranty requirements. We base our estimate for warranty reserves on our historical experience and other assumptions. If actual results materially differ from these estimates, our results of operations could be materially affected. Because we own the S-64 Type Certificate, we are obligated to issue directives to operators of our aircraft and to identify defects or required replacements to our aircraft. We could be liable to operators of our aircraft if we fail to fulfill our obligation to issue directives, even if our aircraft or components of our aircraft are no longer under warranty. 24 Table of Contents Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us. Our pilots and maintenance and manufacturing personnel are highly trained and qualified. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, and other highly trained personnel will be an important factor in determining our future success. Our aircraft, and the aerial services we provide, require pilots with high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly trained personnel is extremely competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such persons. Some of our pilots and mechanics, and those of our competitors, are members of the U.S. military reserves and could be called to active duty. If significant numbers of such persons were called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers, possibly curtailing our operations and likely increasing our labor costs. Because of our small size relative to many of our competitors, we may be unable to attract qualified personnel as easily as our competitors. We are subject to FAA regulation and similar international regulation, and our failure to comply with these regulations, or the adoption of any new laws, policies, or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The aerial services business is heavily regulated by governmental entities in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. We operate in the United States under laws and regulations administered by the Department of Transportation, principally through the FAA. The FAA promulgates rules relating to the general operation of our aircraft, the process by which our aircraft are maintained, the components and systems that are installed in our aircraft, the qualification of our flight crews and maintenance personnel, and the specialized operations that we undertake, including the carrying of loads and the use of various chemicals. We are regularly inspected by FAA personnel to ensure compliance. Additionally, we are sometimes subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business due to, among other things, our business relationships with the U.S. Government and the heavily regulated nature of our industry. Compliance with these rules is complex and costly, and the failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines, the grounding of our aircraft, or other consequences detrimental to our operations and operating results. Our operations in other countries are similarly regulated under equivalent local laws and regulations. Our aircraft manufacturing and MRO operations are also subject to regulation by the FAA and other governmental authorities. The FAA promulgates regulations applicable to the design and manufacture of aircraft and aircraft systems and components. It also sets and enforces standards for the repair of aircraft, systems, and components and for the qualification of personnel performing such functions. It regularly conducts inspections to ensure compliance and has the power to impose fines or other penalties for non-compliance or to shut down non-compliant operations. Our manufacturing and MRO operations are also subject to complex environmental, safety, and other regulations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties or in the shutting down of our operations, which could impair our ability to fulfill our contracts or otherwise negatively impact our reputation for safety and dependability. The FAA approves major changes in aircraft design such as fuel control systems or new rotor blades. Such approvals take time, require investment, and are not assured. Similar regulatory bodies in other countries may accept FAA certification or may impose their own individual requirements. The failure to obtain FAA or other required approval for such changes, or the imposition of unanticipated restrictions as a condition of approval, could increase our production costs or reduce the effectiveness of the system in question and could render our development effort less valuable or, in an extreme case, worthless. The laws and regulations affecting our business are subject to change at any time and, because we operate under numerous jurisdictions, we are particularly exposed to the possibility of such changes. 25 Table of Contents Any change in laws or regulations applicable to our business could restrict our operations, increase our costs, or have other effects detrimental to our results of operations or competitive position. Our business is affected by federal rules, regulations, and orders applicable to government contractors, and the award of government contracts may be challenged. Some of our services are sold under U.S. or foreign government contracts or subcontracts. In addition, governmental contracts typically require a competitive bid process, and the award of a contract may be subject to challenge by bid participants. From time to time, we are also subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government programs. These inquiries and investigations are costly and consume internal resources. Violation of applicable government rules and regulations could result in civil liability, the cancellation or suspension of existing contracts, or the ineligibility for future contracts or subcontracts funded in whole or in part with federal funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claims against us by governmental agencies or other parties related to environmental matters could adversely affect us. In the late 1990s, environmental damage that resulted from hazardous substances at our Central Point, Oregon facility was identified. It was determined that the contamination migrated beyond the property boundary at our facility and impacted off-site water supply wells. A remediation was completed in the late 1990s. Based on the testing of the site in recent years, the contamination levels have been decreasing, though the remediation cannot be guaranteed. We are continuing to participate in monitoring and testing the remediation of the site and we incur ongoing costs for this monitoring and testing. Our obligations in respect of such contamination are subject to an indemnification agreement with our former owner. Under this agreement, our potential total liability in respect of remediation costs is capped at $0.5 million, of which we have already paid $0.4 million, with a total remaining liability of $0.1 million. Although the agreement caps our total potential liability, the creditworthiness of the indemnitor is uncertain. If the indemnitor fails to honor the terms of the indemnification agreement, it is possible that we would have to bear the entire cost of the remediation, monitoring and testing. In addition, it is possible that government agencies or other parties could bring a claim against us resulting from the contamination and that defending and resolving such claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental and other regulation and liability may increase our costs and adversely affect us. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations. Because our operations are inherently hazardous, compliance with these regulations is challenging and requires constant attention and focus. We are subject to federal, state, and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, water discharges, air emissions, hazardous material and waste management, and environmental cleanup. Environmental laws and regulations continue to evolve, and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly under air quality and water quality laws and standards related to climate change issues, such as reporting greenhouse gas emissions. We are required to comply with environmental laws and with the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits. Our failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties administered by the agencies responsible for environmental and safety compliance or by the FAA or other aviation-related agencies. 26 Table of Contents The occurrence of events for which the risk is allocated to us under our contracts could negatively impact our results of operations. Many of our contracts are fixed price contracts which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns. Under these contracts, we typically are responsible for normal maintenance, repair, and fuel costs. In addition, some of our Aerial Services contracts have performance penalty provisions, subjecting us to the risk of unexpected down time caused by mechanical failures or otherwise, which could cause our net income to suffer. Risks associated with estimating our costs and revenues are exacerbated for long-term contracts, which include most of our material contracts. Our contracts to remanufacture aircraft and major overhauls or components typically contain penalty provisions that require us to make payments to customers, or provide interim aerial services to them at no cost, if we are unable to timely deliver aircraft or components. Such contracts may also include a repurchase obligation by us if certain performance or other criteria are not met. We may be required to provide components or services to owners or operators of the S-64 or the CH-54, which could limit our operational flexibility and divert resources from more productive uses. Because we own the S-64 Type Certificate, we may be required to supply components or provide MRO services to customers who own or operate the S-64 or the CH-54, the military version of the S-64. This could limit our operational flexibility, divert resources from more productive uses, and adversely affect our ability to execute on our growth plans. Our dependence on a small number of manufacturers for some of our aircraft components and the costs associated with the purchase or manufacture of new components pose significant risks to our business. We rely on approximately 120 supplier business units or locations for significant or critical components. A small number of manufacturers make some of the key components for our aircraft, and in some instances there is only a single manufacturer, although other manufacturers could be used if necessary for all of our components. If these manufacturers experience production delays, or if the cost of components increases, our operations could suffer. If a manufacturer ceases production of a required component, we could incur significant costs in purchasing the right to manufacture those components or in developing and certifying a suitable replacement, and in manufacturing those components. Many key components and parts on the Aircrane have not been manufactured since originally introduced. A significant portion of our inventory was acquired in bulk on the surplus market. For some aviation components, our operating cost includes the overhaul and repair of these components but does not include the purchase of a new component. It may be difficult to locate a supplier willing to manufacture replacement components at a reasonable cost or at all. As we exhaust our inventory, the purchase of any new components, or the manufacture by us of new components, could materially increase our operating cost or delay our operations; we routinely monitor levels of out-of-production parts and design and certify replacement parts to mitigate this risk. Failure to develop new technologies, and to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, could adversely affect our operations. Our success has resulted in part from our development of new applications for our aircraft, such as our fire tank and snorkel for firefighting services, and we believe our growth will continue to depend on the development of new products or applications. Competitors may develop similar applications for their aircraft, which would increase our competition in providing aerial services. In addition, our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and applications. A number of factors, including FAA certifications, could result in our being unable to capitalize on the development costs for such products or applications. Not all of our products and applications have been, or may be, patented 27 Table of Contents or otherwise legally protected. We rely upon intellectual property law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, clients, consultants, partners, and others to protect our new and existing intellectual property rights. Any of these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any specific breach. If we are not able to adequately protect the inventions and intellectual property we have developed, in the U.S. and in foreign countries, or if any of our trade secrets, know-how, or other technologies were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may have to engage in litigation to defend our trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we are not successful in such litigation, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Our patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings affecting their scope. We cannot assure you that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products could be impaired, which could significantly impede our ability to market our products, negatively affect our competitive position, and harm our business and operating results. Further, we are a party to licenses that grant us rights to intellectual property, including trade secrets, that is necessary or useful to our business. One or more of our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products, or services, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. Our business is subject to risks associated with international operations, including operations in emerging markets. We purchase products from and supply products to businesses located outside of the United States. We also have significant operations outside the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, approximately 53.3%, 55.8%, and 62.5% respectively, of our total revenues were attributable to operations in non-U.S. countries. A number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our results of operations, including: •the uncertain ability of select non-U.S. customers to finance purchases and our inability as a result of lesser transparency in certain jurisdictions to evaluate the credit of potential customers accurately; •currency fluctuations, which can reduce our revenues for transactions denominated in non-U.S. currency or make our services relatively more expensive if denominated in U.S. currency; •difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; •political and financial instability in several of the countries in which we operate, including Greece and Italy; •significant receivables from international customers; •risks associated with transporting our aircraft, including risks associated with piracy and adverse weather; 28 Table of Contents •fluctuations in the costs associated with transporting our aircraft, pilots, and crews, which are significant operating costs for us; •limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; •uncertainties regarding required approvals or legal structures necessary to operate aircraft or provide our products and services in a given jurisdiction; •restrictions on the repatriation of funds from our foreign operations; •changes in regulatory structures or trade policies; •tariff and tax regulations including permanent establishment determinations by foreign governments; •ensuring compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses; and •the risk of government-financed competition. Part of our growth strategy is to enter new markets, including emerging market countries such as China and in South America. Emerging market countries have less developed economies that are more vulnerable to economic and political problems and may experience significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates, and currency exchange rates, as well as civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets, and the imposition of taxes or other charges by government authorities. The occurrence of any of these events and the resulting economic instability that may arise could adversely affect our operations in those countries, or the ability of our customers in those countries to meet their obligations. As a result, customers that operate in emerging market countries may be more likely to default than customers that operate in developed countries. In addition, legal systems in emerging market countries may be less developed, which could make it more difficult for us to enforce our legal rights in those countries. In particular, we have focused on expanding our presences in developing markets such as China and Malaysia, and the laws and regulations governing aviation sales and services may require approvals that are uncertain and enforcement of joint venture or other contractual relationships may be uncertain. For these and other reasons, our growth plans may be materially and adversely affected by adverse economic and political developments in emerging market countries. If our employees unionize, our expenses could increase and our results of operations would suffer. Except for statutory protections for a small number of Italian pilots, none of our employees work under collective bargaining, union or similar agreements. Unionization efforts have been made from time to time within our industry, with varying degrees of success. If our employees unionize, our expenses could increase and our results of operations may suffer. Fuel shortages or fluctuations in the price of fuel could adversely affect our operations. Our aerial operations depend on the use of jet fuel. Fuel costs have historically been subject to wide price fluctuations, and fuel availability is subject to shortage and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products. Fuel shortages and increases in the price of fuel, or decreases in the price of fuel when we have entered into hedging agreements, could adversely affect our operations. 29 Table of Contents Our business is subject to laws limiting ownership or control of aircraft companies, which may increase our costs and adversely affect us. Most of the countries in which we operate have laws requiring local ownership or control, or both, of certain kinds of companies that operate aircraft. We use various strategies to comply with these laws, including the formation of local subsidiaries that we do not wholly own and partnerships with local companies. FAA regulations may require that at least 75% of our voting securities be owned or controlled by United States citizens. The existence of these laws may restrict our operations; reduce our profit from, or control of, some foreign operations; or restrict the market for our securities. Our production may be interrupted due to equipment failures or other events affecting our factories. Our manufacturing and testing processes depend on sophisticated and high-value equipment. Unexpected failures of this equipment could result in production delays, revenue loss, and significant repair costs. In addition, our factories rely on the availability of electrical power and natural gas, transportation for raw materials and finished product, and employee access to our workplace that are subject to interruption in the event of severe weather conditions or other natural or manmade events. While we maintain backup resources to the extent practicable, a severe or prolonged equipment outage or other interruptive event affecting areas where we have significant manufacturing operations may result in loss of manufacturing days or in shipping delays which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. General economic conditions and recent market events may expose us to new risks. Recent events in the financial markets and the economic downturn have contributed to severe volatility in the securities markets, a severe liquidity crisis in the global financial markets, and unprecedented government intervention. These conditions have affected our results of operations and may continue to affect them. In such an environment, significant additional risks may exist for us. The recent instability in the financial markets has led the U.S. Government to take a number of unprecedented actions designed to support certain financial and other institutions and segments of the financial market that have experienced extreme volatility, and in some cases, a lack of liquidity. There can be no assurance that this intervention will improve market conditions, that such conditions will not continue to deteriorate, or that further government intervention will or will not occur. For example, recently, general market volatility has been exacerbated by uncertainty about sovereign debt and the fear that countries such as Greece and Italy may default on their governments' financial obligations. If economic conditions continue or worsen, we face risks that may include: •declines in revenues and profitability from reduced or delayed orders by our customers, in particular with respect to infrastructure construction projects which may be delayed or cancelled; •supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our suppliers; •reductions in credit availability to us or in general; •increases in corporate tax rates to finance government spending programs; and •reductions in spending by governmental entities for services such as infrastructure construction and firefighting. The economic downturn and continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. We cannot predict our ability to obtain financing due to the current credit crisis, and this could limit our ability to fund our future growth and operations. In addition, the creditworthiness of some of our customers may be affected, which may affect our ability to collect on our accounts receivable from such customers. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 