Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, the occurrence of any of which may materially and adversely affect us. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we may currently deem immaterial also may impair our financial condition or operations or otherwise harm us. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties Developing properties will expose us to risks beyond those associated with owning and operating student housing properties, and could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully complete our current properties under development and to identify, plan and execute additional development opportunities. Our development activities may be adversely affected by: · abandonment of development opportunities after expending significant cash and other resources to determine feasibility, requiring us to expense costs or to be unable to realize a return on costs incurred in connection with the abandoned project; · construction costs of a project exceeding our original estimates; · failure to complete development projects in conformity with building plans and specifications; · failure to complete construction and lease-up of development projects on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected revenues; 11 · lower than anticipated occupancy and rental rates at a newly completed property, which occupancy and rental rates may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; · failure to obtain or delays in obtaining construction financing on favorable terms or at all, which could result in delays in closing on acquisitions of undeveloped land; and · failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. The construction activities at our student housing properties expose us to liabilities and risks beyond those associated with the ownership and operation of student housing properties, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. The construction of our student housing properties, including our current properties under development, involves risks associated with construction activities, including liability for workplace safety, such as injuries and accidents to persons and property occurring during the construction process. Construction activities also subject us to obligations relating to environmental compliance, such as management of storm water discharge and run-off, material handling, on-site storage of construction materials and off-site disposal of construction materials. These risks are in addition to those associated with owning or operating student housing properties. Our development activities are subject to delays and cost overruns, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and inhibit growth. Our development activities, including those related to our properties currently under development, may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: work stoppages; labor disputes; shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; changes in laws or other governmental regulations, such as those relating to union organizing activity; lack of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our reliance on local subcontractors, who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; inclement weather; and shortages, delay in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our properties. If we are unable to deliver development properties on schedule or to recover these increased costs by raising our lease rates, our financial performance and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if we do not complete the construction of properties on schedule, we may be required to provide alternative housing to the student-tenants with whom we have signed leases. We generally do not make any arrangements for such alternative housing for these properties and we would likely incur significant expenses in the event we had to provide such housing. If construction is not completed on schedule, student-tenants may attempt to break their leases and our occupancy at such properties for that academic year may suffer. We may not realize a return on our development activities in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the amount of time required for planning, constructing and leasing of development properties, we may not realize a significant cash return for many years. Therefore, if any of our development activities are subject to delays or cost overruns, our growth may be hindered and our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management. Furthermore, maintaining our development capabilities involves significant expenses, including compensation expense for our development personnel and related overhead. To the extent we cease or limit our development activity, these expenses will not be offset by revenues from our development activity. Therefore, if we do not realize a return on our development activities in a timely manner in order to offset these costs and expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions and dislocation in the credit markets have had a material and adverse effect on us and may continue to materially and adversely affect us. We experienced unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets, a reduction in the availability of credit and intense recessionary pressures, which had an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to borrow funds from 2007 through 2010. For example, lenders were generally imposing more stringent lending standards and applying more conservative valuations to properties. This limited the amount of indebtedness we were able to obtain and impeded our ability to develop new properties and to replace construction financing with permanent financing. If these conditions were to develop again in the future, our business and our growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected. Although our business strategy contemplates access to debt financing (including our revolving credit facility, term loans and construction debt) to fund future development and working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $58.5 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility and $50.0 million outstanding under the related term loan. The amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan will reduce the amount that we may be able to borrow under this facility for other purposes. We have approximately $154.1 million in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, and amounts borrowed under the facility will be due at its maturity in January 2017 (subject to a one-year extension which we may exercise at our option, provided we comply with certain terms and conditions, including the payment of an extension fee). This indebtedness, as well as our mortgage, construction and other debt of approximately $205.0 million as of December 31, 2013, and the $100.0 million outstanding principal amount of the Operating Partnership’s 4.75% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2018, will subject us to risks associated with debt financing as described below under "Our indebtedness exposes us to a risk of default and reduces our free cash flow, which could materially and adversely affect us." 12 A subsequent recession or challenging economic environment may adversely affect us by, among other things, limiting or eliminating our access to financing, which would adversely affect our ability to develop and refinance properties and pursue acquisition opportunities. Significantly more stringent lending standards and higher interest rates may reduce our returns on investment and increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Additionally, limited availability of financing may reduce the value of our properties, limit our ability to borrow against such properties and, should we choose to sell a property, impair our ability to dispose of such property at an attractive price or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our properties may be subject to liens or other claims, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We may be subject to liens or claims for materials or labor relating to disputes with subcontractors or other parties that are or were involved in the development and construction process. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to pay amounts greater than currently recorded liabilities in order to settle these claims. Failure to succeed in new markets, or with new brands and community formats, may materially and adversely affect us. We may develop or acquire properties in markets in which we do not currently operate, including our properties currently under development. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local student housing market conditions, an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, an inability to hire and retain key personnel and lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. To the extent we choose to develop or acquire properties in new markets, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with development or operation in these markets, as we do in our current markets, which could adversely affect our ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2013, 40 of our The Grove® brand properties had been developed, built and managed generally based upon a common prototypical Campus Crest building design, which we have built approximately 675 times at our student housing properties (approximately 15 of such residential buildings comprise one student housing property). As of December 31, 2013, 24 of our Copper Beech brand properties had been developed, built and managed generally based upon a common prototypical Copper Beech Townhome Sleeve design, which have been built approximately 3,432 times at our student housing properties (averaging 143 of such residential Townhomes per market). In addition, as of December 31, 2013, 41 of our properties operate under The Grove® brand and 28 operate under the Copper Beech brand. In the future, we may continue to develop properties using new building designs (including high rise buildings) and new brands of communities to target various customer preferences. We cannot assure that these new building designs or brands will be successful or that our costs in developing and implementing the new building designs or brands will result in incremental revenue and earnings. We rely on our relationships with the colleges and universities from which our properties draw student-tenants and on the policies and reputations of these schools; any deterioration in our relationships with such schools or changes in the schools’ admissions or residency policies or reputations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on our relationships with colleges and universities for referrals of prospective student-tenants or for mailing lists of prospective student-tenants and their parents. The failure to maintain good relationships with these schools could therefore have a material adverse effect on us. Many of these schools own and operate on-campus student housing which competes with our properties for student-tenants, and if schools refuse to provide us with referrals or to make lists of prospective student-tenants and their parents available to us or increase the cost of these lists, the lack of such referrals, lists or increased cost could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in admission and housing policies could adversely affect us. For example, if a school reduces the number of student admissions or requires that a certain class of students (e.g., freshman) live in on-campus housing, the demand for beds at our properties may be reduced and our occupancy rates may decline. While we may engage in marketing efforts to compensate for any such policy changes, we may not be able to effect such marketing efforts prior to the commencement of the annual lease-up period, or our additional marketing efforts may not be successful, which could reduce the demand for our properties and materially and adversely affect us. It is also important that the schools from which our properties draw student-tenants maintain good reputations and are able to attract the desired number of incoming students. Any degradation in a school’s reputation could inhibit its ability to attract students and reduce the demand for our properties. 13 Competition from other student housing properties, including on-campus housing and traditional multi-family housing located in close proximity to the colleges and universities from which we draw student-tenants may reduce the demand for our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our properties compete with properties owned by universities, colleges, national and regional student housing businesses and local real estate concerns. On-campus student housing has inherent advantages over off-campus student housing (such as the majority of our properties), due to its physical location on the campus and integration into the academic community, which may cause student-tenants to prefer on-campus housing to off-campus housing. Additionally, colleges and universities may have financial advantages that allow them to provide student housing on terms more attractive than our terms. For example, colleges and universities can generally avoid real estate taxes and borrow funds at lower interest rates than private, for-profit real estate concerns, such as our company. There are a number of student housing properties located near or in the same general vicinity of many of our properties that compete directly with our properties. Such competing student housing properties may be newer, located closer to campus, charge less rent, possess more attractive amenities, offer more services or offer shorter lease terms or more flexible lease terms than our properties. Competing properties could reduce demand for our properties and materially and adversely affect our rental income. Revenue at a particular property could also be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including the construction of new on-campus and off-campus housing, decreases in the general levels of rents for housing at competing properties, decreases in the number of students enrolled at one or more of the colleges or universities from which the property draws student-tenants and other general economic conditions. Although we believe no participant in the student housing industry holds a dominant market share, we compete with larger national companies, colleges and universities with greater resources and superior access to capital. Furthermore, a number of other large national companies with substantial financial and marketing resources may enter the student housing business. The activities of any of these companies, colleges or universities could cause an increase in competition for student-tenants and for the acquisition, development and management of other student housing properties, which could reduce the demand for our properties. Our results of operations are subject to risks inherent in the student housing industry, such as an annual leasing cycle and limited leasing period, which could materially and adversely affect us. We generally lease our properties for 11.5-month terms, and the related leases provide for 12 equal monthly payments of rent. Therefore, our properties must be entirely re-leased each year, exposing us to more leasing risk than property lessors that lease their properties for longer terms. Student housing properties are also typically leased during a limited leasing period that generally begins each October and ends in September of the following year. We are therefore highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing and leasing efforts and personnel during this leasing period. We will be subject to heightened leasing risk at properties under development and at properties we may acquire in the future due to our lack of experience leasing such properties. Any significant difficulty in leasing our properties would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions on our securities and would likely have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. As of the start of the fall term for the 2013-2014 and 2012-2013 academic years, we had approximately 41.7% and 41.9%, respectively, of our current tenants renew their previous lease for the upcoming term. Additionally, student-tenants may be more likely to default on their lease obligations during the summer months, which could further reduce our revenues during this period. Although we typically require a student-tenant’s lease obligations to be guaranteed by a parent, we may have to spend considerable effort and expense in pursuing payment upon a defaulted lease, and our efforts may not be successful. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, particularly those of Ted W. Rollins, our chairman and chief executive officer, Michael S. Hartnett, our vice chairman of special projects, Donald L. Bobbitt our chief financial officer, Robert M. Dann our chief operating officer and Brian L. Sharpe our chief facilities and construction officer. These individuals have extensive experience in our business and are responsible for sourcing attractive investment opportunities, development activities, financing activities, university relations and leasing. Messrs. Rollins and Hartnett have directed the operations of our predecessor entities and each has over 28 years of experience in providing service-enriched housing and approximately nine years of student housing experience. The loss of the services of one or more of these executives could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. The current economic environment could reduce enrollments and limit the demand for our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, profitability and results of operations. A continuation of ongoing economic conditions that adversely affect household disposable income, such as high unemployment levels, weak business conditions, reduced access to credit, increasing tax rates and high fuel and energy costs, could reduce overall student leasing or cause student-tenants to shift their leasing practices as students may determine to forego college or live at home and commute to college. 14 As a result of general economic weakness, many students may be unable to obtain student loans on favorable terms. In addition, despite the recent economic weakness, tuition and other costs associated with attending college have continued to rise. If student loans are not available or their costs are prohibitively high, enrollment numbers for schools from which we draw student-tenants may decrease, resulting in a decrease in the demand for, and consequently the occupancy rates at and rental revenue from, our properties. Accordingly, the continuation or deterioration of current economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, profitability and results of operations. In the past, we have experienced significant net losses; if this trend continues, we could be materially and adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2010 and 2009, we incurred significant net losses. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. While we experienced net income for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, and believe that we are adequately capitalized and able to continue our development activity, there can be no assurance that our business will be profitable in the future and additional losses will not be incurred. If the trend of incurring significant net losses continues in the future, our financial performance, liquidity and our ability to operate our business as a going concern could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to acquire properties on favorable terms, our future growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire new properties on favorable terms. Acquisition opportunities may not be available to us on terms that we deem acceptable, and we may be unsuccessful in consummating acquisition opportunities. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be adversely affected by: · an inability to obtain financing on attractive terms or at all; · increased purchase prices and decreased expected yields due to competition from other potential acquirers and real estate investors; · the need to make significant and unexpected capital expenditures to improve or renovate acquired properties; · an inability to quickly and efficiently integrate acquisitions, particularly any acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; · market conditions resulting in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates at acquired properties; and · acquisition of properties subject to liabilities but without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the sellers, or with liabilities that are unknown to us, such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of our properties. Our failure to identify and consummate property acquisitions on attractive terms or the failure of any acquired properties to meet our expectations could materially and adversely affect our future growth. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisitions and we may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems (including leasing and property management) to successfully integrate new properties into our portfolio without unanticipated disruption or expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through the acquisition of student housing properties and established multi-property portfolios as well as through strategic investments in other student housing companies. We expect the size of our portfolio to meaningfully increase as we execute our business plan. As we increase the size of our portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to integrate new properties into our portfolio or manage any future acquisitions of properties without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. In particular, we cannot assure you that our leasing and property management functions will successfully and efficiently lease and operate properties we acquire. Our acquisitions of properties will generate additional operating expenses that we will be required to pay. Our past growth has required, and our growth will continue to require, increased investment in management personnel, professional fees, other personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which could cause our operating margins to decline from historical levels, especially in the absence of revenue growth. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including tenant retention and mortgage default. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions into our portfolio and manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Our strategy of investing in properties located in medium-sized college and university markets may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our business strategy involves investing in properties located in medium-sized college and university markets, which are smaller than larger educational markets. Larger educational markets, such as Boston, Massachusetts or Washington, D.C., often have multiple colleges and universities that have larger enrollments than schools located in medium-sized college and university markets and attract students nationally and internationally. The colleges and universities that our properties draw student-tenants from typically have smaller enrollments than schools in larger educational markets and tend to attract students from within the region in which the school is located. If the schools in our markets experience reduced enrollment, for example due to adverse economic conditions or rising tuition costs, or are unable to attract sufficient students to achieve a desired class size, the pool of prospective student-tenants for our properties will be reduced. This could have the result of reducing our occupancy and lowering the revenue from our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Our indebtedness exposes us to a risk of default and reduces our free cash flow, which could materially and adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2013, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $413.5 million. Our debt service obligations expose us to the risk of default and reduce cash available to invest in our business or pay distributions that are necessary to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT. Our ability to meet the ongoing payment obligations of our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that capital will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our exchangeable senior notes, our credit agreements and our outstanding preferred stock and to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service these obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets (which we may be limited in doing in light of the relatively illiquid nature of our properties), reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet these payment obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. Although we intend to limit the sum of the outstanding principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness to not more than 50% of our total market capitalization, our board of directors may modify or eliminate this limitation at any time without the approval of our stockholders. Furthermore, our charter does not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. In the future we may incur substantial indebtedness in connection with the development or acquisition of additional properties and for other working capital needs, or to fund the payment of distributions to our stockholders. In addition, a tax protection agreement to which we are a party requires us to maintain a minimum level of indebtedness of $56.0 million throughout a 10-year tax protection period, which ends in October 2020, in order to allow a sufficient amount of debt to be allocable to MXT Capital, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("MXT Capital"), which is wholly-owned and controlled by Ted W. Rollins, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Michael S. Hartnett, our vice chairman of special projects, and certain members of their families, to avoid certain adverse tax consequences. If we fail to maintain such minimum indebtedness throughout the 10-year tax protection period, we will be required to make indemnifying payments to MXT Capital, in an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes, if any, imposed on its members as a result of any income or gain recognized by them by reason of such failure. The amount of such taxes will be computed based on the highest applicable federal, state and local marginal tax rates, as well as any "grossed up" taxes imposed on such payments. This requirement may restrict our ability to reduce leverage when we otherwise might wish to do so and generally reduce our flexibility in managing our capital structure. Our indebtedness and the limitations imposed on us by our indebtedness could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: · we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; · we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the renewal or refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of the indebtedness being renewed or refinanced; · we may be forced to dispose of certain of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; · we may default on our payment or other obligations as a result of insufficient cash flow or otherwise, which may result in a cross-default on our other obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; · to the extent that we incur unhedged floating rate debt, we will have exposure to interest rate risk; and · foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the distribution requirements necessary to enable us to qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. 16 Compliance with the provisions of our debt agreements, including financial and other covenants, such as the maintenance of specified financial ratios, could limit our flexibility, and a default under these agreements could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some business activities. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: · restrict our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness; · restrict our ability to make certain investments; · restrict our ability to effect certain mergers; · restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; and · require us to maintain certain financial coverage ratios. These limitations restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the per share trading price of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with any of these covenants, including the financial coverage ratios, could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness contain certain cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control of us. Under the documents that govern our indebtedness, if we experience a change of control, we could be required to repay the entire principal balance of our outstanding indebtedness. Under our Exchangeable Senior Notes indenture, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the indenture, we must offer to purchase the notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest. Under the credit agreement that governs our revolving credit facility, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the credit agreement, the lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate payment of the entire principle balance of the facility. We might not have sufficient funds to repay the amounts due under the revolving credit facility or pay the required price for the notes following a change of control. Variable rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $148.6 million of our aggregate indebtedness (approximately 35.9% of total indebtedness) was subject to variable interest rates. In addition, we may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. While we have entered into arrangements that hedge the risk of rising interest rates, there can be no assurance that such arrangements will adequately protect against rising interest rates or that we will be able to enter into interest rate hedging arrangements in the future. If we are unable to enter into arrangements that hedge the risk of rising interest rates, increases in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect net income and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to stockholders. Joint venture investments could be materially and adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between our co-venturers and us. Our properties located in Lawrence, Kansas, San Angelo, Texas, and Conway, Arkansas, comprising approximately 3.4% of our beds, are held in a joint venture with HSRE, in which we own a 49.9% interest. Our properties located in Fayetteville, Arkansas, Laramie, Wyoming and Stillwater, Oklahoma, comprising approximately 4.2% of our beds, are held in a joint venture with HSRE, in which we own a 10.0% interest. Our properties located in Indiana, Pennsylvania, State College, Pennsylvania and Norman, Oklahoma, comprising approximately 4.1% of our beds, are held in a joint venture with HSRE, in which we own a 20.0% interest. Additionally, we entered into one joint venture with HSRE in 2013, in which we own a 30.0% interest and through which we are developing two properties with completion targeted for the 2014-2015 academic year. Our property located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, comprising 1.9% of our beds, is held in a joint venture with HSRE and Brandywine, in which we own a 30.0% interest with completion targeted for the 2014-2015 academic year. Our properties located in Montreal, Quebec, comprising 5.1% of our beds, is held in a joint venture with Beaumont Partners, in which we own a 20.0% interest (in January 2014, our ownership interest increased to 35%, see Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements) with completion targeted for the 2014-2015 academic year. In addition, we currently hold an effective 67.0% investment in the CB Portfolio, comprising 31.5% of our beds, and, pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing this investment, share decision making authority with the CB Investors. 17 We anticipate that we may enter into other joint ventures with other parties in the future. We may not have a controlling interest in a joint venture and may share responsibility with our co-venturer for managing the property held by the joint venture. Under such circumstances, we may not have sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture’s property. Investments in joint ventures, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when we invest in a property without the involvement of a third party. For example, our co-venturer may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our preferences, policies or objectives. Additionally, it is possible that our co-venturer might become bankrupt, fail to fund its share of required capital contributions or block or delay decisions that we believe are necessary. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as sales, because neither we nor our co-venturers may have full control over the joint venture. Disputes between us and our co-venturer may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our officers and directors from other aspects of our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with our co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party co-venturers. Any of the foregoing factors could materially and adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our joint-venture investments. We could be negatively impacted by the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of secured financing to the student housing industry and we have used Freddie Mac for a portion of our financing needs. In February 2011, the U.S. Treasury along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development released a report calling for the winding down of the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the mortgage market. In February 2012, the Federal Housing Finance Agency delivered a strategic plan to Congress to wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac over the next several years. This proposal includes building a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, continuing to shrink Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s operations by eliminating the direct funding of mortgages and shifting mortgage credit risk to private investors. In addition, in August 2012, the U.S. Treasury announced further steps to expedite the winding down of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by accelerating the rate at which Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s investment portfolios will be reduced to target levels agreed to with the U.S. Treasury. Pursuant to these steps, Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s investment portfolios must be reduced to the agreed target four years earlier than previously scheduled. A final decision by the government to eliminate Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or reduce their acquisitions or guarantees of student housing property loans may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, and the value of student housing properties. If we are unable to react effectively and quickly to changes in the mortgage industry, our business could be harmed. We have a limited operating history as a REIT and as a publicly traded company and may not be able to successfully operate as a REIT or a publicly traded company. We have a limited operating history as a REIT and as a publicly traded company. We cannot assure you that the past experience of our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a REIT or a publicly traded company, including the requirements to timely meet disclosure requirements of the SEC and comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Since our initial public offering, we have been subject to various requirements related to REITs and publicly traded companies, including requirements to develop and implement control systems and procedures in order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT and satisfy our periodic and current reporting requirements under applicable SEC regulations and comply with New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") listing standards. Our continued compliance with these requirements could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Failure to operate successfully as a public company or qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the per share trading price of our securities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect the eligibility of our stock to remain listed on the NYSE. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the per share trading price of our securities. 18 Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our student-tenants and employees. While we have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any breach of our data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our investment in properties subject to ground leases with unaffiliated third parties exposes us to the potential loss of such properties upon the expiration or termination of the ground leases, and the realization of such loss could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties at the University of South Alabama and Colorado State University are also subject to a right of first refusal that may inhibit our ability to sell them. Our properties located on the campuses of the University of South Alabama and Colorado State University are subject to ground leases with unaffiliated third parties. In addition, we may invest in additional properties that are subject to ground leases with unaffiliated third parties. As the lessee under a ground lease with an unaffiliated third party, we are exposed to the possibility of losing our leasehold interest in the land on which our buildings are located. A ground lease may not be renewed upon the expiration of its current term or may be terminated by the lessor pursuant to the terms of the lease if we do not meet our obligations thereunder. In the event of an uncured default under any of our existing ground leases, the lessor may terminate our leasehold interest in the land on which our buildings are located. Any termination of our existing ground leases with unaffiliated third parties, unless in conjunction with the exercise of a purchase option, would also result in termination of our management agreement relating to the property. If we lose the leasehold interest in any of our properties, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our properties located at the University of South Alabama and Colorado State University are also subject to a right of first refusal pursuant to which the ground lessor entity related to the land has a right to purchase our leasehold interest in the relevant property in the event we decide to accept an offer to sell either property to a third party. This may inhibit our ability to sell these properties. Further, our right to transfer one of the on-campus properties is subject to the consent of the ground lessor, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. We may incur losses on interest rate swap and hedging arrangements, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently use, and may in the future enter into additional interest rate swap and hedging agreements. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If an arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to pass-through increases in taxes or other real estate costs to our student-tenants could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Each of our properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. We generally are not able to pass through to our student-tenants under existing leases any increases in taxes, including real estate and income taxes, or other real estate related costs, such as insurance or maintenance. Consequently, unless we are able to off-set any such increases with sufficient revenues, we may be materially and adversely affected by any such increases. The prior performance of our properties may not be indicative of our future performance. All of our properties have been acquired or developed by us and/or our predecessor entities within the past nine years and have limited operating histories. Consequently, the historical operating results of our properties and the financial data we have disclosed may not be indicative of our future performance. The operating performance of the properties may decline and we could be materially and adversely affected. Reporting of on-campus crime statistics required of colleges and universities may negatively impact our properties. Federal and state laws require colleges and universities to publish and distribute reports of on-campus crime statistics, which may result in negative publicity and media coverage associated with crimes occurring in the vicinity of, or on the premises of, our on-campus properties. Reports of crime or other negative publicity regarding the safety of the students residing on, or near, our properties may have an adverse effect on both our on-campus and off-campus properties. We may be subject to liabilities from litigation, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have been involved in legal proceedings in connection with our business, and may become involved in additional legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation that, if decided adversely to or settled by us and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liabilities that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 19 We face risks associated with land holdings. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in owning or purchasing and developing land increase as demand for student housing, or rental rates, decrease. As a result, we hold certain land and may in the future acquire additional land in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build and develop into a profitable student housing project. In addition, real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land has fluctuated significantly and may continue to increase as a result of changing market conditions. Further, carrying costs associated with land holdings can be significant and can result in losses or reduced margins in a poorly performing project. Under current market conditions, we may have impairments of our land held for development. Our issuance of common stock under our At-The-Market offering program may be dilutive, and there may be future dilution of our common stock. After giving effect to the issuance of common stock under our At-The-Market offering program and the receipt of the expected net proceeds and the use of those proceeds, there may be a dilutive effect on our estimated earnings per share and funds from operations per share for the year ending December 31, 2013 or subsequent years during which the offering is ongoing. The actual amount of potential dilution cannot be determined at this time and will be based on numerous factors. Additionally, we are not restricted by our organizational documents, contractual arrangements or otherwise from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities in the future. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock after this offering or the perception that such issuances could occur. Our management will have broad discretion with respect to the use of the proceeds resulting from the issuance of common stock under our At-The-Market offering program. Our management has significant flexibility in applying the net proceeds we expect to receive from the issuance of common stock under the Equity Distribution Agreements. We intend to use the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, which may include repaying debt, including our revolving credit facility. However, because the net proceeds are not required to be allocated to any specific investment or transaction, investors cannot determine at the time of issuance the value or propriety of our application of the net proceeds, and investors may not agree with our decisions. In addition, our use of the net proceeds from the offering may not yield a significant return or any return at all. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations. We have a wholly-owned property management subsidiary and we hold interests in two joint venture properties that operate in Canada and we may pursue additional expansion and development opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks include: · adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; · changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally; · costs associated with complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and litigation; · difficulties in managing international operations, including difficulties that arise from ambiguities in contracts written in foreign languages and difficulties that arise in enforcing such contracts; · differing lending practices; · differing employment and labor issues; · changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; · difficulties in managing international operations; · obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; · obstacles to hiring appropriately trained staff; and 20 · differences in cultures including adapting practices and strategies that have been successful in the U.S. student housing business to retail needs and expectations in new markets Although our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business, to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and the value of our properties are subject to risks associated with real estate and with the real estate industry, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make distributions to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate cash revenues in excess of our expenses, including expenses associated with our development activities, indebtedness and capital expenditure requirements. The occurrence of certain events and conditions that are generally applicable to owners and operators of real estate, many of which are beyond our control, could materially and adversely affect us. These events and conditions include: · adverse national, regional and local economic conditions; · rising interest rates; · oversupply of student housing in our markets, increased competition for student-tenants or reduction in demand for student housing; · inability to collect rent from student-tenants; · vacancies at our properties or an inability to lease our properties on favorable terms; · inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; · increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; · the need for capital expenditures at our properties; · costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; · the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; and · civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the one the global economy experienced from 2007 through 2011, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in occupancy rates and rental revenue or an increased incidence of defaults under our existing leases, which could impair the value of our properties or reduce our cash flow. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to sell our properties or otherwise respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. From time to time, we may determine that it is in our best interest to sell one or more of our properties. However, because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may encounter difficulty in finding a buyer in a timely manner should we desire to sell one of our properties, especially if market conditions are poor at such time. Selling real estate has been difficult recently, since the availability of credit has become more limited, and as lending standards have become more stringent. As a result, potential buyers have experienced difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to purchase a property. In addition, our properties are specifically designed for use as student housing, which could limit their marketability or affect their values for alternative uses. Consequently, should we desire to sell one or more of our properties, our ability to do so promptly or on terms that we deem to be acceptable may be limited, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions on our securities and would likely have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. We also may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct any such defects or to make any such improvements. In connection with any future property acquisitions, we may agree to provisions that materially restrict our ability to sell the property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be secured by or repaid with respect to such property. 21 In addition, our ability to sell properties may be limited by our need to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax that is imposed on gain recognized by a REIT from the sale of property characterized as dealer property. Any such limitation may cause us to incur losses, thereby reducing our cash flows. See "Federal Income Tax Risk FactorsThe tax imposed on REITs engaging in ‘prohibited transactions’ may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes." These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of any of our properties or a need for liquidity could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions on our securities and would likely have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under various environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Additionally, an entity that arranges for the disposal or treatment of a hazardous or toxic substance or petroleum at another property may be held jointly and severally liable for the cost of investigating and cleaning up such property or other affected property. Such parties are known as potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"). These environmental laws often impose liability regardless of whether the PRP knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup of these substances can be substantial. PRPs may also be liable to parties who have claims for contribution in connection with any such contamination, such as other PRPs or state and federal governmental agencies. The liability is generally not limited under such laws and therefore could easily exceed the property’s value and the assets of the liable party. The presence of contamination, hazardous materials or environmental issues, or the failure to remediate such conditions, at a property may expose us to third-party liability for personal injury or property damage, remediation costs or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the property or to borrow using the property as collateral, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws also impose ongoing compliance requirements on owners and operators of real estate. Environmental laws potentially affecting us address a wide variety of matters, including, but not limited to, asbestos-containing building materials ("ACBMs"), storage tanks, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, radon, wetlands and hazardous wastes. Failure to comply with these laws could result in fines and penalties or expose us to third-party liability, which could materially and adversely affect us. Some of our properties may have conditions that are subject to these requirements and we could be liable for such fines or penalties or could be liable to third parties. The conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability and remediation costs related to environmental matters, which could materially and adversely affect us. Certain of our properties may contain, or may have contained, ACBMs. Environmental laws require that ACBMs be properly managed and maintained, and regulators may impose fines and penalties on building owners and operators for failure to comply with these requirements. Also, some of our properties may contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that may contain or may have contained storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Any of these conditions create the potential for the release of these contaminants. Third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury or property damage arising from such tanks. Additionally, third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to these or other contaminants that may be present on, at or under the properties. Furthermore, some of our properties include regulated wetlands on undeveloped portions of such properties and mitigated wetlands on or near our properties, the existence of which can delay or impede development or require costs to be incurred to mitigate the impact of any disturbance. Absent appropriate permits, we can be held responsible for restoring wetlands and be required to pay fines and penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions on our securities. Over the past several years there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and operators of properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in real estate. Mold growth can occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as some molds have been shown to produce airborne toxins and irritants and exposure to these and other types of molds may lead to adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. Some of our properties may contain microbial matter such as mold and mildew. The presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property and could expose us to liability from student-tenants, employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions on our securities. 22 If any of our properties are not properly connected to a water or sewer system, or if the integrity of such systems is breached, microbial matter or other contamination can develop. If this were to occur, we could incur significant remedial costs and we could also be subject to private damage claims and awards, which could be material. If we become subject to claims in this regard, it could materially and adversely affect our business and our insurability for such matters in the future. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I environmental site assessments on all of our properties. These Phase I environmental site assessments are intended to evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties based generally on visual observations, interviews and the review of publicly available information. These assessments do not typically take into account all environmental issues including, but not limited to, testing of soil or groundwater, a comprehensive asbestos survey or an invasive inspection for the presence of lead-based paint, radon or mold contamination. As a result, these assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities, or other compliance issues affecting our properties. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance issues may have arisen after the assessments were conducted or may arise in the future. In addition, future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liabilities. We cannot assure you that the cost of future environmental compliance or remedial measures will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not be material to us. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act and similar laws, which could materially and adversely affect us. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements may require modifications to our properties, such as the removal of access barriers or restrict our ability to renovate or develop our properties in the manner we desire. Additional federal, state and local laws may also require us to make similar modifications or impose similar restrictions on us. For example, the Fair Housing Act (“FHA”) requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with present requirements of the ADA, FHA or any similar laws. Noncompliance with any of these laws could result in us incurring significant costs to make substantial modifications to our properties or in the imposition of fines or an award or damages to private litigants. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA, FHA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA, FHA or any other legislation, our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions on our securities could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. Furthermore, existing requirements could change and require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to make distributions on our securities. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of insured limits could materially and adversely affect us. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, terrorism and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio. Our insurance includes coverage for earthquake damage to properties located in seismically active areas, windstorm damage to properties exposed to hurricanes, and terrorism insurance on all of our properties. Our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits and applicable deductibles, and if we suffer a substantial loss, our coverage may be insufficient. All insurance policies are also subject to coverage extensions that we believe are typical for our business. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots or other acts of God. In the event we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds our policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. In addition, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position with respect to the damaged or destroyed property. Furthermore, in the event of a substantial loss at one or more of our properties that is covered by one or more policies, the remaining insurance under these policies, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our other properties. In such event, securing additional insurance policies, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policies. Any loss of these types may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States or an increase in incidents of violence on college campuses could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and acts of war, or threats of the same, could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties. Any such event in any of the markets in which our properties are located would make it difficult for us to maintain the affected property’s occupancy or to re-lease the property at rates equal to or above historical rates, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the market price of our capital stock and could also materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions on our securities. 23 Incidents of violence on college campuses could pose similar problems, if such an incident were to occur on a college campus in one of our markets. Such an event in any of our markets could not only adversely affect our occupancy rates, but would also likely lead to increased operating expenses for such properties due to increased security costs, which would likely be necessary to reassure our student-tenants in the wake of such an incident. Any such increase in operating expenses may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the affected property. In addition, terrorist attacks or violent incidents could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or prohibitively expensive. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company and Structure Provisions of our charter allow our board of directors to authorize the issuance of additional securities, which may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us through a transaction that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In addition, subject to the rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock to approve the classification or issuance of any class or series of stock ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified stock. As a result, our board of directors may authorize the issuance of additional stock or establish a series of common or preferred stock that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including through a transaction at a premium over the market price of our securities, even if our stockholders believe that a change in control through such a transaction is in their best interest. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, which, in turn, may negatively affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the market price of our securities. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL") may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our securities, including: · The Maryland Business Combination Act, which, subject to limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an "interested stockholder" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our voting capital stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and · The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that our "control shares" (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a "control share acquisition" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of "control shares") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. By resolution of our board of directors, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provided that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). Pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt into the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt into the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our securities. 24 The ownership limitations in our charter may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our securities, which may delay or prevent a change in control of us that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own shares of our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year. To assist us in qualifying as a REIT, our charter contains a stock ownership limit which provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of either our outstanding common stock or our outstanding capital stock in the aggregate. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock articles supplementary provide generally that no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Generally, any of our shares of capital stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the stock ownership limits. If anyone transfers shares of our stock in a way that would violate the stock ownership limits or prevent us from qualifying as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the stock ownership limits or we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires securities in violation of the stock ownership limits or the other restrictions on transfer in our charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if their market price falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. The constructive ownership rules under the Internal Revenue Code are complex and may cause stock owned actually or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be owned constructively by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our stock (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns, actually or constructively, our stock) by an individual or entity, could, nevertheless cause that individual or entity, or another individual or entity, to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of our outstanding stock and therefore would subject the individual or entity to the stock ownership limits. However, under certain circumstances, our charter provides that our board of directors shall make an exception to this limitation if our board determines that such exception will not jeopardize our tax status as a REIT. In addition, the stock ownership limits and the other restrictions on transfer in our charter may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us, whether such a transaction involved a premium price for our securities or otherwise was in the best interest of our stockholders. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit the recourse available in the event actions are taken that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in connection with the director’s management of the business and affairs of a corporation if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter exculpates our directors and officers from liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers, which could limit the recourse available in the event actions are taken that are not in our stockholders’ best interest. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause (as defined in our charter) and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Our charter also provides that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements prevent stockholders from removing directors except for cause and with a substantial affirmative vote and from replacing directors with their own nominees. As a result, a change in our management that our stockholders believe is in their best interest may be delayed, deferred or prevented. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for us and does not review or approve each investment decision made by our management team. Our management team is authorized to follow broad investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining which investments are proper for us, as well as in making the individual investment decisions. Our management team may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. 25 The ability of our board of directors to change some of our policies without the consent of our stockholders may lead to the adoption of policies that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to investments, leverage, financing, growth, debt and capitalization, are determined by our board of directors or those committees or officers to whom our board of directors may delegate such authority. Our board of directors also establishes the form, timing and/or amount of any dividends or distributions that we may pay to our stockholders. Our board of directors or the committees or officers to which such decisions may be delegated have the ability to amend or revise these and our other policies at any time without stockholder vote. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have control over changes in our policies, and we may adopt policies that may not prove to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Members of our management and board of directors are holders of OP units, and their interests may differ from those of our stockholders. Members of our management and board of directors are direct or indirect holders of OP units. As holders of OP units, they may have conflicting interests with our stockholders. For example, they may have different tax positions from our stockholders, which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new indebtedness or refinance existing indebtedness and how to structure future transactions. As a result, our management and board of directors may implement policies or make decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers that require us to make payments in the event such officer’s employment is terminated by us without cause or by such officer for good reason. This may make it difficult for us to effect changes to our management or limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us when it would otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The employment agreements that we entered into with certain of our executive officers provide benefits under certain circumstances that could make it more difficult for us to terminate these officers. Therefore, even if we sought to replace these officers, it may not be economically viable for us to do so. Furthermore, because an acquiring company would likely seek to replace these officers with their own personnel, these employment agreements could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us that would otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our primary assets are our general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership and OP units and, as a result, we depend on distributions from the Operating Partnership to pay dividends and expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our general partnership interest and OP units. We intend to cause the Operating Partnership to make distributions to its limited partners, including us, in an amount sufficient to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to pay all our expenses. To the extent we need funds and the Operating Partnership is restricted from making distributions under applicable law, agreement or otherwise, or if the Operating Partnership is otherwise unable to provide such funds, the failure to make such distributions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We operate through a partnership structure, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our primary property-owning vehicle is the Operating Partnership, of which we are the sole general partner. Our acquisition of properties through the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP units may permit certain tax deferral advantages to the sellers of those properties. If properties contributed to the Operating Partnership have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in such properties prior to contribution, then the sale of such properties could cause material and adverse tax consequences to the partners who contributed such properties. Although we, as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, generally have no obligation to consider the tax consequences of our actions to any limited partner, in connection with our formation transactions, we agreed to indemnify MXT Capital for certain tax consequences related to our properties. There can be no assurance that the Operating Partnership will not acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the partners who contribute such properties. Such restrictions could result in significantly reduced flexibility to manage our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 We have fiduciary duties as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership which may result in conflicts of interest in representing your interests as our stockholders. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. We, as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in the Operating Partnership under Delaware law. At the same time, our directors and officers have duties to us and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of us. Our duties as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership may come in conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders. For example, those persons holding OP units will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. We are unable to modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if there is a conflict between the interests of our stockholders, on one hand, and the interests of the limited partners, on the other, we will endeavor in good faith to resolve the conflict in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners; provided, however, that for so long as we own a controlling interest in the Operating Partnership, we have agreed to resolve any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners in favor of our stockholders. Changes in accounting rules, assumptions and/or judgments could materially and adversely affect us. Accounting rules and interpretations for certain aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant assumptions and judgment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation and public dissemination of our financial statements. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules and interpretations or in our accounting assumptions and/or judgments, such as those described in our summary of significant accounting policies in the notes to the consolidated and combined financial statements, could significantly impact the actual results included in our financial statements. Under any of these circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain our distribution rate, and we may be required to fund the minimum distribution necessary to qualify for taxation as a REIT from sources that could reduce our cash flows. Our ability to fund any distributions will depend, in part, upon continued successful leasing of our existing portfolio, successful development activity and fee income from development, construction and management services. To the extent these sources are insufficient, we may use our working capital or borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund distributions. If we need to fund future distributions with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or from working capital, or if we reduce our distribution rate, our stock price may be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that we fund any distributions with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or from working capital, our cash available for investment in our business, including for property development and acquisition purposes, will decrease. In addition, in order to qualify for taxation as a REIT, among other requirements, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. To the extent that, in respect of any calendar year, cash available for distribution to our stockholders is less than our REIT taxable income, we would be required to fund the minimum distribution necessary to qualify for taxation as a REIT from other sources, which could include asset sales or borrowings. Funding a distribution through asset sales or borrowings could reduce our cash flow from operations, increase our interest expense and decrease our cash available for investment in our business. We may also choose to meet this distribution requirement by distributing a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. See "Federal Income Tax Risk FactorsWe may pay taxable dividends of our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock." Any distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a holder to the extent that they do not exceed the holder’s adjusted basis in the shares of stock in respect of which the distributions were made, but rather, will reduce the adjusted basis of these shares. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted basis of a stockholder’s shares, they will generally be included in income as capital gains. The market price of our securities may be volatile due to numerous circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our securities may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, government regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the market price of our securities. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price or result in fluctuations in the market price of our securities include: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in our financial performance or earnings estimates; · increases in market interest rates (which, among other consequences, may lead purchasers of our securities to require a higher dividend yield to make or maintain an investment); · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key personnel; 27 · actions by our stockholders; · speculation in the press or investment community; · general market, economic and political conditions, including the recent economic slowdown and dislocation in the global credit markets; · our issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities; · availability of outstanding shares of our common stock, including sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market (including shares held by our directors, officers or their affiliates); · the performance of other similar companies; · changes in accounting principles; · passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and · the potential impact of the recent economic slowdown on the student housing industry and related budgets of colleges and universities. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of distributions, may limit our operating and financial flexibility and adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our common stock is ranked junior to our Series A Preferred Stock. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference upon our dissolution, liquidation or winding up in respect of assets available for distribution to our stockholders. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our securities or both. In addition, it is possible that these securities or indebtedness will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility and limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering or otherwise incur indebtedness will depend on then-current market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or financings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our securities and diluting their proportionate ownership. Our lack of a formal enterprise risk management framework could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition or results of operations. In the course of our senior management’s efforts to identify, assess and manage our risks, they currently do not have the benefit of a formal enterprise risk management program to facilitate their efforts. While many of the risks that we monitor and manage are described in this section of this report, our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently described or known to us or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. Without a formal enterprise risk management framework, we may not be able to effectively manage and mitigate the risks to which we are subject or effectively minimize any losses stemming from such risks. Even with a formal enterprise risk management framework, our efforts to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Failure to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage or mitigate these risks could adversely affect our profitability or our ability to retain or grow business and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal Income Tax Risk Factors Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT could have a material and adverse effect on us and on the value of our securities. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. If we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face significant adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and 28 · unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. stockholders that are individuals would be taxed on our dividends at the current maximum U.S. federal income tax rate currently of 20%, and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations ("Treasury Regulations") that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements on a continuing basis, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, sources of our gross income and stockholder ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. As a result of these factors, our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our securities. To remain qualified as a REIT, we will likely rely on the availability of equity and debt capital to fund our business. To remain qualified as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Because of REIT distribution requirements, we may be unable to fund capital expenditures, such as our developments, future acquisitions or property upgrades or renovations from operating cash flow. Therefore, we may be dependent on the public equity and debt capital markets and private lenders to fund our growth and other capital expenditures. However, we may not be able to obtain this capital on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: · general market conditions; · our current debt levels and the number of properties subject to encumbrances; · our current performance and the market’s perception of our growth potential; · our cash flow and cash dividends; and · the market price of our securities. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders, including those necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could materially and adversely affect us. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that have a material and adverse effect on us. Even if we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would cause our operating costs to increase, and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, various services provided at our properties generally cannot be provided directly by the property owner, but must be provided through TRSs that are treated as fully taxable corporations. 29 To remain qualified as a REIT, we may be forced to limit the activities of our TRSs, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. To remain qualified as a REIT, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of the securities of one or more TRSs. Certain of our activities, such as our third-party development, construction, management and leasing services, must be conducted through our TRSs for us to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, certain non-customary services must be provided by a TRS or an independent contractor. If the revenues from such activities create a risk that the value of our TRSs, based on revenues or otherwise, approaches the 25% threshold, we will be forced to curtail such activities or take other steps to remain under the 25% threshold. Since the 25% threshold is based on value, it is possible that the IRS could successfully contend that the value of our TRSs exceeds the 25% threshold even if our TRSs account for less than 25% of our consolidated revenues, income or cash flow. Our third-party services generally are performed by our TRSs. Consequently, income earned from our third-party services and non-customary services will be subject to regular federal income taxation and state and local income taxation where applicable, thus reducing the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A TRS is not permitted to directly or indirectly operate or manage a "hotel, motel or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis." We previously have been advised by counsel that the method of operating our TRSs will not be considered to constitute such an activity. However, future Treasury Regulations or other guidance interpreting the applicable provisions might adopt a different approach, or the IRS might disagree with the conclusion of our counsel. In such event we might be forced to change our method of operating our TRSs, or one or more of the TRSs could fail to qualify as a TRS, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any of the foregoing circumstances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and we could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS, will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. The failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would also cause it to become subject to federal state and corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities. The maximum tax rate applicable to "qualified dividend income" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of the stock of REITs, including our securities. We may pay taxable dividends in the form our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common stock at the election of each stockholder. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on such dividends, it may be viewed as economically equivalent to a dividend reduction and put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay taxable dividends in the form of our common stock and cash, although we may choose to do so in the future. 30 Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets will not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test, if certain requirements are not met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the respective TRS. These increased costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in "prohibited transactions" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales or otherwise as taxable dispositions for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, subject to certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. Re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease," thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification "asset tests" or the "income tests" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments or to forgo otherwise attractive investment opportunities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the type and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid suffering adverse tax consequences, including potentially losing our REIT status. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. New legislation, regulation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, regulatory, administrative or judicial action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our stock. The U.S. federal income tax rules that affect REITs are under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our stock. 31 Risks Related to the Copper Beech Acquisition If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of the CB Portfolio, we could be materially and adversely affected. In February 2013, we entered into purchase and sale agreements to acquire interests in a portfolio of 35 student housing properties, one undeveloped land parcel and corporate office building held by the members of Copper Beech Townhome Communities, LLC ("CBTC") and Copper Beech Townhome Communities (PA), LLC ("CBTC PA", together with CBTC, "Copper Beech" or the "Sellers") (the “CB Portfolio”). The CB Portfolio Acquisition represents the largest acquisition of a property portfolio that we have ever contracted to acquire. The transaction involves the integration of a portfolio of properties that has previously operated independently. Successful integration of these operations will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate standards, controls, procedures and policies. This transaction will also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the operations of the CB Portfolio. We may not be able to integrate these operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. If we have difficulties with any of these integrations, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the transaction, and this may hurt our business and financial results. In addition, we may experience greater-than-expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the operations of the CB Portfolio. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · inability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees; · inability to compete in new markets; · increased costs or increases in taxable income due to restructuring or other steps required in connection with the integration of the CB Portfolio as a result of our compliance with the tax requirements applicable to REITs under the Code; · projections of estimated future revenues, cost savings or operating metrics that we developed during the due diligence and integration planning process may not be achieved; · the value of the acquired properties or the market price of our common stock may decline; · adverse impact on the effectiveness of our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; diversion of our management’s attention away from other business concerns; · exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities relating to the CB Portfolio; and · potential underinsured losses on the CB Portfolio. We cannot assure you that we would be able to integrate the CB Portfolio without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the CB Portfolio Acquisition will be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Failure to realize the intended benefits of the CB Portfolio Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, the market price of our common shares and our distributions to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended benefits of the CB Portfolio Acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. We may not exercise our options to acquire additional interests in the CB Portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock, our business or our results of operations. Pursuant to the terms of the limited liability company operating agreements governing the properties that comprise the CB Portfolio, we currently do not have control of the CB Portfolio or its operations. Our holding a non-controlling interest in the CB Portfolio involves risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following: · we generally will be unable to take actions that are opposed by the CB Investors under arrangements that give the CB Investors sole control or that require us to share decision making authority over major decisions affecting the owner ship or operation of the CB Portfolio; · the CB Investors may take actions that we oppose or that result in liability to us; · our ability to sell or transfer our interest in the CB Portfolio to a third party may be restricted without prior consent of the CB Investors; · the CB Investors might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction, development or operation of a property; · the CB Investors may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes or impasses regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; · the limited liability company operating agreements governing the properties in the CB Portfolio include certain provisions intended to protect our status as a REIT (including provisions which require our prior written consent before certain specific actions can be taken). However, we cannot provide any assurances that the CB Investors will not take actions that could jeopardize our status as a REIT or require us to pay tax; · we may disagree with the CB Investors about decisions affecting a property or the CB Portfolio, which could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and · we may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by the CB Investors with respect to the CB Portfolio. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock, our business or our results of operations. If we do not exercise our options to acquire additional interests in the CB Portfolio, our economic interest in the CB Portfolio will be reduced. Through each of August 2014, May 2015, and May 2016, we may elect to acquire additional interests in the CB Portfolio at purchase prices and on terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement, as amended (see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  CB Portfolio Acquisition). If we do not elect to exercise a purchase option, we will lose the right to exercise future purchase options and, with respect to the August 2014 and May 2015 purchase options, our interest in the proceeds from any sale of any properties in the CB Portfolio will be reduced. If the August 2014 purchase option is not exercised, our interest in the CB Portfolio and its operating cash flows will be reduced to 48% and we will be entitled to only 45% of the proceeds of any sale of any portion of the CB Portfolio and will not be entitled to any preferred payments from and after the expiration of the August 2014 purchase option. If the August 2014 purchase option is exercised but the May 2015 purchase option is not exercised, our interest in the CB Portfolio and its operating cash flows will be reduced to 75% and we will be entitled to only 70% of the proceeds of any sale of any portion of the CB Portfolio. If the value of our interest in the CB Portfolio declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet or on our financial performance or results of operations. Furthermore, as and to the extent that our interest in the CB Portfolio increases, it will comprise a larger percentage of our portfolio of properties, which will increase the risk that a decline in the value of the CB Portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet or on our financial performance or results of operations. Our inability to provide audited financial statements for the CB Portfolio in accordance with Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X may cause us to be unable to complete a registered offering, which would materially adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Pursuant to Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-09”), we are required to provide in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) audited financial statements for the CB Portfolio for the period from March 18, 2013 to December 31, 2013. However, we are unable to file the audited financial information required by Rule 3-09 and have omitted such information in reliance on Rule 12b-21 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Rule 409 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with our acquisition of the CB Portfolio we were required to rely upon the sellers of the CB Portfolio to provide the necessary information to complete the audited financial statements as required under Rule 3-09. The sellers of the CB Portfolio agreed to cooperate with us to provide all requested financial information relating to the CB Portfolio, and, in accordance with this agreement to cooperate, we requested the information necessary to complete the audited financial statements as required under Rule 3-09 and the sellers of the CB Portfolio cooperated in responding to such requests. Notwithstanding our and the sellers’ extensive efforts to compile the necessary financial information, we have determined that the information necessary for the preparation of audited financial statements of the CB Portfolio in accordance with Rule 3-09 is not available or otherwise sufficiently reliable. As a result, we have included in this Form 10-K an unaudited combined consolidated statement of revenues and certain expenses for the CB Portfolio for the period from March 18, 2013 to December 31, 2013. As a result of including such financial information for the CB Portfolio, we do not believe that the omission of the audited financial statements in accordance with Rule 3-09 will have a material impact on a reader’s understanding of our financial condition or our results of operations. If the SEC, however, were to determine that we are not permitted to rely upon Rule 12b-21 and Rule 409 in these circumstances and were to determine that the omission of the audited financial statements as required under Rule 3-09 caused a material deficiency in our Form 10-K, then we would no longer be deemed timely and current in our Exchange Act reporting requirements and, therefore, would be ineligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3. In addition, the SEC may not declare effective any registration statement that we file in connection with an offering that requires the financial statements under Rule 3-09 to be included. If, as a result, we are unable to complete a registered offering, our ability to access the public capital markets would be materially adversely affected. Any resulting inability to complete a registered offering may materially adversely impact our business, growth prospects (including our ability to exercise options to acquire additional interests in the CB Portfolio), financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 