Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our NAV and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure Certain Risks in the Current Environment Capital markets are currently in a period of disruption and instability. These market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which could have a negative impact on our business and operations. In 2007, the global capital markets entered into a period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the capital markets, these conditions could continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. While these conditions persist, we and other companies in the financial services sector may be required to, or may choose to, seek access to alternative markets for debt and equity capital. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we will not generally be able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below NAV per share. In addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost, and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Conversely, the portfolio companies in which we will invest may not be able to service or refinance their debt, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition as we would experience reduced income or even experience losses. The inability to raise capital and the risk of portfolio company defaults may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We may suffer credit losses. Private debt in the form of secured loans to corporate and asset-based borrowers is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss, and therefore an investment in our shares of common stock may not be suitable for someone with a low tolerance for risk. These risks are likely to increase during an economic recession, such as the economic recession or downturn that the U.S. and many other countries have recently experienced or are experiencing. If we use borrowed funds to make investments or fund our business operations, we will be exposed to risks typically associated with leverage which will increase the risk of investing in us. We may borrow money, including through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock or under the Facility, to leverage our capital structure, which is generally considered a speculative investment technique. As a result: · our common shares would be exposed to an increased risk of loss because a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage; 27 · if we do not appropriately match the assets and liabilities of our business, adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage; · our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be restricted if our asset coverage ratio, as provided in the 1940 Act, is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock would not be available for such dividends; · the Facility would be subject to periodic renewal by our lenders, whose continued participation cannot be guaranteed; · such securities would be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility; · we, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on such securities; and · any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks and other financial institutions, which we collectively refer to as “senior securities”, only in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test and we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our securities at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We also may issue, through our SBIC subsidiary, SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to certain restrictions. For a discussion of the requirements for issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation—Small Business Investment Company Regulations.” Covenants in the Facility may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. We maintain the Facility with certain lenders party thereto from time to time and ING Capital LLC, as administrative agent. The Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, subject to certain exclusions. Availability of loans under the Facility is linked to the valuation of the collateral pursuant to a borrowing base mechanism. The terms of the Facility also contain certain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to create liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, incur indebtedness and guarantees, repurchase or redeem indebtedness, make certain investments or acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates or change the nature of our business. The Facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. As a result of such covenants and restrictions in the Facility, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, our ability to satisfy the financial requirements required by the Facility can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet these requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may be in default under the Facility, and we may be prohibited from undertaking actions that are necessary or desirable to maintain and expand our business. Default under the Facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders declare amounts outstanding under the Facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against the assets pledged to secure the debt under the Facility. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business if the lenders determine to exercise their rights. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We anticipate that our investments generally will be made in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will be otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our investment adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments. The debt and equity securities in which we invest for which market quotations are not readily available will be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors. Due to the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a readily available market value existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. Our NAV could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. We also are not adopting any policy restricting the percentage of our assets that may be invested in a single portfolio company. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our NAV may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements under Subchapter M of the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. 28 Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies; this concentration will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations. The number of portfolio companies in our portfolio may be higher or lower depending on the amount of our assets under management at any given time, market conditions and the extent to which we employ leverage, and will likely fluctuate over time. A consequence of this limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be materially and adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements under Subchapter M of the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. In addition, investments in our portfolio are not rated by any rating agency. Debt in which we intend to invest in the future is typically not rated by any rating agency. We believe that if such investments were rated, the vast majority would be rated below investment grade due to speculative characteristics of the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Our investments may result in an amount of risk, volatility or potential loss of principal that is greater than that of alternative investments. In addition, to the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt will be subject to greater fluctuations in value based on changes in interest rates, such debt could subject us to phantom income, and since we will generally not receive any cash prior to maturity of the debt, the investment will be of greater risk. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company, without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We may, however, co-invest with our investment adviser and its affiliates’ other clients in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. For example, we may co-invest with such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the SEC staff permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that our investment adviser, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also co-invest with our investment adviser’s other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and MCC Advisors’ allocation policy. Under this allocation policy, a fixed percentage of each opportunity, which may vary based on asset class and from time to time, will be offered to us and similar eligible accounts, as periodically determined by MCC Advisors and approved by our board of directors, including our independent directors. The allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and these other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on each account’s capital available for investment, as determined, in our case, by our board of directors. It is our policy to base our determinations as to the amount of capital available for investment based on such factors as: the amount of cash on-hand, existing commitments and reserves, if any, the targeted leverage level, the targeted asset mix and diversification requirements and other investment policies and restrictions set by our board of directors or imposed by applicable laws, rules, regulations or interpretations. We expect that these determinations will be made similarly for other accounts. However, we can offer no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. In situations where co-investment with other funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, such as when there is an opportunity to invest in different securities of the same issuer or where the different investments could be expected to result in a conflict between our interests and those of other MCC Advisors clients, MCC Advisors will need to decide which client will proceed with the investment. MCC Advisors will make these determinations based on its policies and procedures, which generally require that such opportunities be offered to eligible accounts on an alternating basis that will be fair and equitable over time. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which a fund managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. We may also be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our board of directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. The SEC has interpreted the business development company regulations governing transactions with affiliates to prohibit certain “joint transactions” between entities that share a common investment adviser. We and MCC Advisors have sought exemptive relief from the SEC to permit us to negotiate the terms of co-investments if our board of directors determines that it would be advantageous for us to co-invest with other funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements and other pertinent factors. We believe that co-investment by us and other funds managed by MCC Advisors and its affiliates may afford us additional investment opportunities and an ability to achieve greater diversification. Accordingly, our application for exemptive relief will seek an exemptive order permitting us to invest with funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates in the same portfolio companies under circumstances in which such investments would otherwise not be permitted by the 1940 Act. There can be no assurance that we will obtain exemptive relief or that if we do obtain such relief it will be obtained on the terms we have outlined in our request. We expect that such exemptive relief permitting co-investments, if granted, would apply only if our independent directors review and approve each co-investment. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. To the extent we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt or access the Facility to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds will increase because the interest rate on the Facility is floating, which could reduce our net investment income to the extent any debt investments have fixed interest rates. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with issuances of equity and long-term debt securities. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to the MCC Advisors. 29 If MCC Advisors is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of MCC Advisors to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result largely will be a function of MCC Advisors’ investment process and, in conjunction with its role as our administrator, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us. MCC Advisors’ senior management team is also the senior management team for Medley Capital, and may in the future manage other private investment funds. They may also be required to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings), the dividend rates payable on preferred stock we issue, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our income may be substantially lower than when our portfolio is fully invested and therefore our ability to make distributions may be limited because we are a new company with limited operating history. We were formed in April 2010 and became a public company in January 2011. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. We have not yet invested all the proceeds from our initial public offering and have invested a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering in short-term investments, such as cash and cash equivalents, which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving in respect of investments in accordance with our investment objective. As a result, any distributions we make during this period may be substantially lower than the distributions that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. If we fail to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more onerous regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we may include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, such as payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind arrangements are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to raise cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Tax Matters — Taxation of the Company”. We may be required to pay incentive fees on income accrued, but not yet received in cash. That part of the incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Consequently, we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against our investment adviser. We may not be able to pay you dividends and our dividends may not grow over time. We intend to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to pay a specified level of cash dividends or year-to-year increases in cash dividends. Our ability to pay dividends might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could limit our ability to pay dividends. All dividends will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, our SBIC subsidiary’s compliance with SBIC regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends to our stockholders in the future. 30 Our SBIC subsidiary may be unable to make distributions to us that will enable us to meet or maintain RIC status, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax. In order for us to continue to qualify for RIC tax treatment and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we will be required to distribute substantially all of our net ordinary income and net capital gain income, including income from certain of our subsidiaries, which includes the income from our SBIC subsidiary. We will be partially dependent on our SBIC subsidiary for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. Our SBIC subsidiary may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and SBIC regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to maintain our status as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions for our SBIC subsidiary to make certain distributions to maintain our eligibility for RIC status. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such a waiver and if our SBIC subsidiary is unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBIC regulations may result in loss of RIC tax treatment and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax on us. Our SBIC subsidiary, if licensed by the SBA, will be subject to SBA regulations, and any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have applied to the SBA for a license for Medley SBIC LP to operate as an SBIC. On November 23, 2011, we received a “green light” or “go forth letter” from the SBA inviting us to continue our application process to obtain a license to form and operate an SBIC subsidiary. We have received no assurance or indication from the SBA that we will receive a license, or the timeframe in which we would receive a license, should one ultimately be granted. The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits SBICs from providing funds for certain purposes or to businesses in a few prohibited industries. Compliance with SBA requirements may cause our SBIC subsidiary to forego attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations. Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a “change of control” of an SBIC or any transfers of the capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If our SBIC subsidiary fails to comply with applicable SBIC regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit its use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit it from making new investments. In addition, the SBA can revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Our SBIC subsidiary’s investment adviser does not have any prior experience managing an SBIC. Its lack of experience in complying with SBA regulations may hinder its ability to take advantage of our SBIC subsidiary’s access to SBA-guaranteed debentures. Any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations. The highly competitive market in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, other SBICs and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities intensified in recent years and may intensify further in the future. Some of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions and valuation requirements that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and the tax consequences of qualifying as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in small and mid-sized companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financial institutions. A significant increase in the number and/or size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under the regulatory restrictions of the 1940 Act. The lack of experience of our investment adviser and its management in operating under the constraints imposed on us as a BDC may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of private companies or U.S. public companies with market capitalizations of less than $250 million, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities and other high quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less. In addition, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, diversification and distribution requirements. MCC Advisors does not have experience investing under these constraints. These constraints, among others, may hinder MCC Advisors’ ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. 31 We depend upon senior management personnel of our investment adviser for our future success, and if our investment adviser is unable to retain qualified personnel or if our investment adviser loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on the members of senior management of MCC Advisors, particularly the managing partners Brook Taube, Seth Taube and Andrew Fentress, as well as other key investment personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These members of MCC Advisors’ senior management and investment teams are integral to its asset management activities and have critical industry experience and relationships that we will rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on their continued service to MCC Advisors. The departure of any of the members of MCC Advisors’ senior management or a significant number of the members of its investment team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. In addition, we can offer no assurance that MCC Advisors will remain our investment adviser or our administrator. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our net investment income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth and such capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We intend to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. If we meet certain requirements, including source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements, and if we continue to be regulated as a BDC, we will qualify to be a RIC under the Code and will not have to pay corporate-level taxes on income we distribute to our stockholders as dividends, allowing us to substantially reduce or eliminate our corporate-level tax liability. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200% at the time we issue any debt or preferred stock. This requirement limits the amount of our leverage. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt or issuing preferred stock and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a BDC, we are generally not permitted to issue common stock priced below NAV without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our NAV could decline. 32 Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results or value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects could adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns. There may be times when MCC Advisors, its senior management and investment teams, and members of its Investment Committee have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest. In particular, certain private investment funds managed by the Principals of MCC Advisors hold controlling or minority equity interests, or have the right to acquire such equity interests, in each of the portfolio companies in which we will hold a debt investment immediately following the completion of this offering. As a result, the Principals of MCC Advisors may face conflicts of interests in connection with making business decisions for these portfolio companies to the extent that such decisions affect the debt and equity holders in these portfolio companies differently. In addition, the Principals of MCC Advisors may face conflicts of interests in connection with making investment or other decisions, including granting loan waivers or concessions, on our behalf with respect to these portfolio companies given that they also manage private investment funds that hold the equity interests in these portfolio companies. There may be conflicts related to obligations MCC Advisors’ senior management and investment teams, and members of its Investment Committee have to other clients. The members of the senior management and investment teams, and the Investment Committee of MCC Advisors serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in our best interests or in the best interest of our stockholders. For example, Brook Taube, Seth Taube and Andrew Fentress, have management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors. Our investment objective may overlap with the investment objectives of such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. For example, affiliates of MCC Advisors currently manage private funds and managed accounts that are seeking new capital commitments and will pursue an investment strategy similar to our strategy, and we may compete with these and other entities managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors for capital and investment opportunities. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by principals of, or affiliated with, MCC Advisors. MCC Advisors will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts on an alternating basis that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with its allocation policy. However, we can offer no assurance that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. MCC Advisors has agreed with our board of directors that when we are able to co-invest with other investment funds managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors allocations among us and other investment funds will generally be made based on capital available for investment in the asset class being allocated. We expect that available capital for our investments will be determined based on the amount of cash on-hand, existing commitments and reserves, if any, the targeted leverage level, targeted asset mix and diversification requirements and other investment policies and restrictions set by our board of directors or as imposed by applicable laws, rules, regulations or interpretations. In situations where we cannot co-invest with other investment funds managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors, the investment policies and procedures of MCC Advisors generally require that such opportunities be offered to us and such other investment funds on an alternating basis. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all investment opportunities that are suitable to us. 33 MCC Advisors may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. MCC Advisors and members of its senior management and investment teams, and Investment Committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies by law or otherwise, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for MCC Advisors that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to MCC Advisors. These fees are based on our gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on our gross assets, MCC Advisors will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, MCC Advisors may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because MCC Advisors determines when a holding is sold, MCC Advisors controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how MCC Advisors addresses these and other conflicts of interests associated with its management services and compensation. While they are not expected to review or approve each borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors will periodically review MCC Advisors’ services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, MCC Advisors or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. The part of the incentive fee payable to MCC Advisors that relates to our net investment income will be computed and paid on income that may include interest income that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. This fee structure may be considered to involve a conflict of interest for MCC Advisors to the extent that it may encourage MCC Advisors to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. MCC Advisors may have an incentive to invest in deferred interest securities in circumstances where it would not have done so but for the opportunity to continue to earn the incentive fee even when the issuers of the deferred interest securities would not be able to make actual cash payments to us on such securities. This risk could be increased because MCC Advisors is not obligated to reimburse us for any incentive fees received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash the deferred income that was previously accrued. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments are expected to be made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these securities in good faith pursuant to our valuation policy. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from MCC Advisors prepare portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, including Brook Taube, Seth Taube and Andrew Fentress, have a pecuniary interest in MCC Advisors. The participation of MCC Advisors’ investment professionals in our valuation process, and the pecuniary interest in MCC Advisors by certain members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the management fee that we will pay MCC Advisors is based on our gross assets. Conflicts related to other arrangements with MCC Advisors. We utilize MCC Advisors’ office space and pay to MCC Advisors our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by MCC Advisors in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, such as our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This has resulted in conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. 34 The investment management agreement and administration agreement with MCC Advisors were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The investment management agreement and the administration agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to MCC Advisors, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. 35 Our ability to sell or otherwise exit investments in which affiliates of MCC Advisors also have an investment may be restricted. We may be considered affiliates with respect to certain of our portfolio companies, as discussed under “Portfolio Companies”. Certain private funds advised by the Principals of the Adviser also hold interests in these portfolio companies and as such these interests may be considered a joint enterprise under applicable regulations. To the extent that our interests in these portfolio companies may need to be restructured in the future or to the extent that we choose to exit certain of these transactions, our ability to do so will be limited. We intend to seek exemptive relief in relation to certain joint transactions, however, there is no assurance that we will obtain relief that would permit us to negotiate future restructurings or other transactions that may be considered a joint enterprise. Our investment adviser may not be able to achieve the same or similar returns as those achieved by our senior management and investment teams while they were employed at prior positions. The track record and achievements of the senior management and investment teams of MCC Advisors are not necessarily indicative of future results that will be achieved by our investment adviser. As a result, our investment adviser may not be able to achieve the same or similar returns as those achieved by our senior management and investment teams while they were employed at prior positions. Risks Related to Our Investments We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we make a debt investment, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Our investments are very risky and highly speculative. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans issued by private middle-market companies. Senior Secured Loans. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Equity Investments. When we invest in senior secured loans, we may acquire equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 36 In addition, investing in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. See “Our investments in private middle-market portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment” below. Our investments in private middle-market portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Investments in private middle-market companies involve a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of MCC Advisors’ investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Private middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, private middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. Private middle-market companies also generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in these types of companies. We intend to invest primarily in secured debt issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks above or equally with the debt securities in which we invest. In the case of debt ranking above debt securities in which we invest, we would be subordinate to such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company and therefore the holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: (1) the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; (2) the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; (3) the approval of amendments to collateral documents; (4) releases of liens on the collateral; and (5) waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce stated yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. The loans underlying the Loan Assets are callable at any time, most of them at no premium to par. It is not clear at this time when each loan may be called. Whether a loan is called will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan called early may reduce the achievable yield for the Company below the stated yield to maturity contained herein if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. 37 Our current investment portfolio may hold indirect interests in loans rather than direct interests, which subjects us to additional risk. We may make or acquire loans or investments through participation agreements. A participation agreement typically results in a contractual relationship only with the counterparty to the participation agreement and not with the borrower. MCC Advisors has adopted best execution procedures and guidelines to mitigate credit and counterparty risk when we acquire a loan through a participation agreement. In investing through participations, we will generally not have a right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the loan agreement against the borrower, and we may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which it has purchased the participation. As a result, we will be exposed to the credit risk of both the borrower and the counterparty selling the participation. In the event of insolvency of the counterparty, we, by virtue of holding participation interests in the loan, may be treated as its general unsecured creditor. In addition, although we may have certain contractual rights under the loan participation that require the counterparty to obtain our consent prior to taking various actions relating to the loan, we cannot guarantee that the counterparty will seek such consent prior to taking various actions. Further, in investing through participation agreements, we may not be able to conduct the due diligence on the borrower or the quality of the loan with respect to which it is buying a participation that we would otherwise conduct if we were investing directly in the loan, which may result in us being exposed to greater credit or fraud risk with respect to the borrower or the loan than we expected when initially purchasing the participation. See “Risks Related to Our Business – There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns” above. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio; our ability to make follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies may be restricted. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, provided that there are no restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial investment. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. Our failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make such follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or because we desire to maintain our RIC tax status. We may be restricted from making follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies to the extent that affiliates of ours hold interests in such companies. Our ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances. To maintain our status as a BDC, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. In addition, we may invest up to 30% of our portfolio in opportunistic investments which will be intended to diversify or complement the remainder of our portfolio and to enhance our returns to stockholders. These investments may include private equity investments, securities of public companies that are broadly traded and securities of non-U.S. companies. We expect that these public companies generally will have debt securities that are non-investment grade. 38 Our incentive fee may induce our investment adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to MCC Advisors may create an incentive for MCC Advisors to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to MCC Advisors is determined, which is calculated separately in two components as a percentage of the interest and other ordinary income in excess of a quarterly minimum hurdle rate and as a percentage of the realized gain on invested capital, may encourage MCC Advisors to use leverage or take additional risk to increase the return on our investments. The use of leverage may magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is considered a speculative technique. If we borrow from banks or other lenders, we would expect that such lenders will seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default and these lenders likely will have claims on our assets that are superior to those of our equity holders. In addition, MCC Advisors receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no minimum level of gain applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, MCC Advisors may have an incentive to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, we will bear our ratable share of any such investment company’s expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to MCC Advisors with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our common stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of MCC Advisors as well as indirectly bear the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss and may pay more than 20% of our net capital gains because we cannot recover payments made in previous years. Our investment adviser will be entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our net investment income for that quarter above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. If we pay an incentive fee of 20% of our realized capital gains (net of all realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis) and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although it is anticipated that most of our investments will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. As a result, a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability. 39 Hedging transactions may expose us to additional risks. We may engage in currency or interest rate hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. While we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. We currently expect that a significant portion of our investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. If we invest in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, we might not receive interest or other payments. We may invest in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. Such investments generally are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer of those obligations might not make any interest or other payments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Risks Related to Our Operations as a BDC and a RIC and Our SBIC Subsidiary’s Operations as an SBIC Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may limit our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will in the future require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities (including debt and preferred stock), the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from securitization transactions. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we may only issue senior securities up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such issuance or incurrence. If our assets decline in value and we fail to satisfy this test, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales or repayment may be disadvantageous, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We also may issue, through our SBIC subsidiary, SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to certain restrictions. For a discussion of the requirements for issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation—Small Business Investment Company Regulations.” 40 · Senior Securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred stockholders having separate voting rights and possibly rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in your best interest. · Additional Common Stock. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below NAV without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price, that in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities at the relevant time. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the NAV per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and such stockholders may experience dilution. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, we will be required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC. We will be required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses in the near term that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also will result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. In addition, any change to the SBA’s current debenture SBIC program could have a significant impact on our ability to obtain lower-cost leverage, through our SBIC subsidiary, and therefore, our ability to compete with other finance companies. 41 If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Regulation”. We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs and possibly lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will become subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code. Although we intend to elect to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code for 2011 and succeeding tax years, no assurance can be given that we will be able to qualify for and maintain RIC status. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. · The distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. · The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each fiscal year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. · The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions, and thus, our stockholders. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. 42 Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of the companies; · changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to BDCs, SBICs or RICs; · loss of our qualification as a RIC or BDC or our SBIC subsidiary’s status as an SBIC; · changes in earnings or variations in operating results; · changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; · changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; · any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; · departure of MCC Advisors’ or any of its affiliates’ key personnel; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; · general economic trends and other external factors; and · loss of a major funding source. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 