Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of these risks or uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material, were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment. Risks Inherent in Our Business As we have been unable to extend the expiration date of our amended and restated credit agreement, we are unable to demonstrate that we have sufficient liquidity to operate our business over the next twelve months and thus substantial doubt is raised about our ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an emphasis paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015. As we have been unable to extend the expiration date of our amended and restated credit agreement, we are unable to demonstrate that we have sufficient liquidity to operate our business over the next twelve months and thus substantial doubt is raised about our ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an emphasis paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015. The presence of the going concern emphasis paragraph in our auditors' report may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third 29 Table of Contents parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors, lenders and employees, making it difficult to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed and conduct normal operations. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In April 2015, we entered into a third amendment of our amended and restated senior secured credit facility. The third amendment extended the expiration date of the amended and restated credit agreement to July 2017. The extension was contingent upon (i) our leverage ratio being less than or equal to 2.75 to 1.0 and (ii) our having liquidity greater than or equal to $15 million, in each case for either the quarter ending December 31, 2015 or March 31, 2016. If both of these conditions were not satisfied for either quarter, the expiration date of the amended and restated credit agreement would revert to July 2016, at which time we will be required to repay all of the outstanding borrowings thereunder. As of December 31, 2015, our leverage ratio was 3.2 to 1.0 and our liquidity was approximately $1.1 million. Thus, we did not meet the extension conditions as of December 31, 2015. In March 2016, we amended our amended and restated senior secured credit facility where the expiration date was set to July 2016. We are working with our lenders to extend the amended and restated credit agreement to December 2017. Since our credit facility has an expiration date of July 2016, we determined that our credit facility debt liability of $41.2 million at December 31, 2015 should be classified as a current liability on our consolidated statements of financial position. The classification of our credit facility balance as a current liability raises substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. If we are unable to amend and extend the expiration date of our amended and restated senior secured credit facility, we will have to secure alternative financing to replace our credit facility by the expiration date of July 2016 in order to continue our business operations, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain adequate alternative financing on acceptable terms or at all. There are other uncertainties as to our ability to access funding under our amended and restated credit agreement. In order to borrow under our amended and restated credit facility, we must make certain representations and warranties to our lenders at the time of each borrowing. If we are unable to make these representations and warranties, we would be unable to borrow under our amended and restated credit facility, absent a waiver. Furthermore, if we violate any of the covenants or restrictions in our amended and restated credit agreement, including the maximum leverage ratio, some or all of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. Given the continued weak demand and low prices for met and steam coal, we may not be able to continue to give the required representations or meet all of the covenants and restrictions included in our credit facility. If we are unable to give a required representation or we violate a covenant or restriction, then we will need a waiver from our lenders in order to continue to borrow under our amended and restated credit agreement. Our principal liquidity requirements are to finance current operations, fund capital expenditures and service our debt. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash generated by our operations and borrowings under our credit facility. If we are unable to extend the expiration date of our amended and restated credit facility or secure a replacement facility or borrow under our existing credit facility, we will lose a primary source of liquidity, and we may not be able to generate adequate cash flow from operations to fund our business, including amounts that may become due under our credit facility. Failure to obtain financing or to generate sufficient cash flow from operations could cause us to further curtail our operations and reduce our spending and to alter our business plan. We may also be required to consider other options, such as selling additional assets or merger opportunities, and depending on the urgency of our liquidity constraints, we may be required to pursue such an option at an inopportune time. If we are not able to fund our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. 30 Table of Contents Our common units have been suspended from trading on the NYSE and may cease to be listed on the NYSE should we lose the appeal of the suspension and delisting of our common units. Furthermore, even if we were to successfully appeal the suspension and delisting of our common units from the NYSE, we may be unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements. On December 17, 2015, the NYSE notified us that it had determined to commence proceedings to delist our common units from the NYSE as a result of our failure to comply with the continued listing standard set forth in Section 802.01B of the NYSE Listed Company Manual to maintain an average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of at least $15 million for its common units. The NYSE also suspended the trading of the common units at the close of trading on December 17, 2015. Following the suspension, our common units began trading on the OTCQB under the symbol "RHNO" on December 18, 2015. The NYSE informed us that it will apply to the Securities and Exchange Commission to delist our common units upon completion of all applicable procedures, including any appeal by us of the NYSE's decision. On January 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the NYSE to review the suspension and delisting determination of our common units. The NYSE notified us that our appeal would be reviewed on April 20, 2016 to make a determination on the suspension and delisting of our common units. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our appeal and that our request for continued listing on the NYSE will be granted. Furthermore, even if we were to successfully appeal the suspension and delisting of our common units from the NYSE, we may be unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements. A delisting of our common units from the NYSE as a result of an unsuccessful appeal could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common units; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common units; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. Further, if our common units are delisted from the NYSE, we would no longer be subject to the NYSE rules including rules requiring us to meet certain corporate governance standards. Without required compliance of these corporate governance standards, investor interest in our common units may decrease. Our common units are currently traded on the OTCQB as a result of the NYSE's suspension of trading of our common units. In the event of an unsuccessful appeal of the suspension and delisting of our common units from the NYSE, our common units will be delisted from the NYSE and will trade indefinitely on the OTCQB or one of the other over-the-counter markets, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common units and harm our business. Our common units were suspended from trading on the NYSE at the close of trading on December 17, 2015. On December 18, 2015, our common units began trading over the counter on the OTCQB under the ticker symbol "RHNO." On January 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the NYSE to review the suspension and delisting determination of our common units. While our appeal is pending, the common units will remain suspended from trading on the NYSE and will continue to trade on the OTCQB or one of the other over-the-counter markets. Trading on the OTCQB or one of the other over-the-counter markets may result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our unitholders: • the liquidity of our common units; • the market price of our common units; • our ability to issue additional securities or obtain financing; • the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common units; • the number of market makers in our common units; 31 Table of Contents • the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common units; and • the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in our common units. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution of $0.445 per unit, or $1.78 per unit per year, which will require us to have available cash of approximately $13.3 million per quarter, or $53.2 million per year, based on the number of common and subordinated units outstanding as of December 31, 2015 and the general partner interest. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal we are able to produce from our properties, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, operating difficulties and unfavorable geologic conditions; • the price at which we are able to sell coal, which is affected by the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner and its affiliates. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the impact of future environmental and climate change regulations, including those impacting coal-fired power plants; • the level of worldwide energy and steel consumption; • prevailing economic and market conditions; • difficulties in collecting our receivables because of credit or financial problems of customers; • the effects of new or expanded health and safety regulations; • domestic and foreign governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation of the mining industry, the electric utility industry or the steel industry; • changes in tax laws; • weather conditions; and • force majeure. We may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time we determine that our cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs. Beginning with the quarter ended September 30, 2014, distributions on our common units were below the minimum level and, beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2015, we suspended the quarterly distribution on our common units altogether. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our common units accrue arrearages every quarter when the distribution level is below the minimum quarterly distribution level and our subordinated units do not accrue such arrearages. In the future, if and as 32 Table of Contents distributions are made for any quarter, the first priority is to pay the then minimum quarterly distribution to common unitholders. Any additional distribution amounts paid at that time are then paid to common unitholders until previously unpaid accumulated arrearage amounts have been paid in full. Thus, we have arrearages accumulating on our common units since the distribution level has been below our minimum quarterly level of $0.445 per unit. In addition, we have not paid any distributions on our subordinated units for any quarter after the quarter ended March 31, 2012. We may not have sufficient cash available for distributions on our common or subordinated units in the future. Any further reduction in the amount of cash available for distributions could impact our ability to pay any quarterly distribution on our common units. Moreover, we may not be able to increase distributions on our common units if we are unable to pay the accumulated arrearages on our common units as well as the full minimum quarterly distribution on our subordinated units. A decline in coal prices could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our results of operations and the value of our coal reserves are significantly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. Prices for coal tend to be cyclical; however, prices have become more volatile and depressed as a result of oversupply in the marketplace. The prices we receive for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of domestic and foreign coal; • the demand for domestic and foreign coal, which is significantly affected by the level of consumption of steam coal by electric utilities and the level of consumption of metallurgical coal by steel producers; • the price and availability of alternative fuels for electricity generation; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations, particularly those relating to the environment, climate change, health and safety; • the level of domestic and foreign taxes; • weather conditions; • terrorist attacks and the global and domestic repercussions from terrorist activities; and • prevailing economic conditions. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and lower prices for our products. In addition, the recent global economic downturn, coupled with the global financial and credit market disruptions, has had an impact on the coal industry generally and may continue to do so. The demand for electricity and steel may remain at low levels or further decline if economic conditions remain weak. If these trends continue, we may not be able to sell all of the coal we are capable of producing or sell our coal at prices comparable to recent years. In addition to competing with other coal producers, we compete generally with producers of other fuels, such as natural gas. A decline in the price of natural gas has made natural gas more competitive against coal and resulted in utilities switching from coal to natural gas. Sustained low natural gas prices may also cause utilities to phase out or close existing coal-fired power plants or reduce or eliminate construction of any new coal-fired power plants, which could have a material adverse effect on demand and prices received for our coal. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal supply contracts could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 33 Table of Contents As the prolonged weakness in the U.S. coal markets continued during 2015, we performed a comprehensive review during the fourth quarter of 2015 of our current coal mining operations as well as potential future development projects to ascertain any potential impairment losses. We identified various properties, projects and operations that were potentially impaired based upon changes in its strategic plans, market conditions or other factors, specifically in Northern Appalachia where market conditions related to our operations deteriorated in the fourth quarter of 2015. We believe that an oversupply of coal being produced in Northern Appalachia has contributed to depressed coal prices from this region. We believe the oversupply of coal has been created due to historically low natural gas prices in this region, which competes with coal as a source of electricity generation. Utilities have chosen cheap natural gas for electricity generation over coal and, additionally, we believe the amount that the utilities' power plants have been dispatched for electricity generation has fallen due to low electricity demand. The production of natural gas from the Utica Shale and Marcellus Shale regions that are located within the Northern Appalachian region have kept natural gas prices low and larger coal producers have low-cost long-wall mines in Northern Appalachia that can compete to sell lower priced coal to utilities that still require coal supplies in this region. We believe this combination of factors have decreased coal prices in Northern Appalachia to levels where certain current operations as well as future plans for the development of the Leesville Field will be unprofitable in the near term. In addition to impairment charges related to certain Northern Appalachia operations, we also recorded asset impairment and related charges for the sale of the Deane mining complex, the sale of our Cana Woodford oil and natural gas investment and an impairment charge for intangible assets. We recorded approximately $31.6 million of total asset impairment and related charges for the year ended December 31, 2015. Please see "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a detailed discussion of these asset impairment and related charges. In addition, the prices of oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. We could be negatively impacted by the competitiveness of the global markets in which we compete and declines in the market demand for coal. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and overseas for domestic and international sales. The domestic demand for, and prices of, our coal primarily depend on coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry and the domestic steel industry. Consumption by the domestic electric utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric and wind power and other renewable energy sources. Consumption by the domestic steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. The competitive environment for coal is impacted by a number of the largest markets in the world, including the United States, China, Japan and India, where demand for both electricity and steel has supported prices for steam and metallurgical coal. The economic stability of these markets has a significant effect on the demand for coal and the level of competition in supplying these markets. The cost of ocean transportation and the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies significantly impact the relative attractiveness of our coal as we compete on price with foreign coal producing sources. During the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by coal producers or producers of alternate fuels could decrease the demand for, or pricing of, or both, for our coal, adversely impacting our results of operations and cash available for distribution. 34 Table of Contents Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on prevailing market conditions. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, potentially reducing the price we could obtain for this coal and adversely impacting our cash flows, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Any change in consumption patterns by utilities away from the use of coal, such as resulting from current low natural gas prices, could affect our ability to sell the coal we produce, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Steam coal accounted for approximately 95% of our coal sales volume for the year ended December 31, 2015. The majority of our sales of steam coal during this period were to electric utilities for use primarily as fuel for domestic electricity consumption. The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, and the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and oil as well as alternative sources of energy. We compete generally with producers of other fuels, such as natural gas and oil. A decline in price for these fuels could cause demand for coal to decrease and adversely affect the price of our coal. For example, sustained low natural gas prices have led, in some instances, to decreased coal consumption by electricity-generating utilities. If alternative energy sources, such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind or solar, become more cost-competitive on an overall basis, demand for coal could decrease and the price of coal could be materially and adversely affected. Further, legislation requiring, subsidizing or providing tax benefit for the use of alternative energy sources and fuels, or legislation providing financing or incentives to encourage continuing technological advances in this area, could further enable alternative energy sources to become more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our mining operations are subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could materially increase our operating costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. The coal mining industry is subject to numerous and extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations pertaining to permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment, the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, protection of wetlands, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these laws and regulations are significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of our operations. Moreover, the possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or new judicial interpretations or enforcement policies of existing laws and regulations) could materially affect our mining operations, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders, either through direct impacts such as those regulating our existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as those that discourage or limit our customers' use of coal. Violations of applicable laws and regulations would subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and a range of other possible sanctions. The enforcement of laws and regulations governing the coal mining industry has increased substantially. As a result, the consequences for any noncompliance may become more significant in the future. Our operations use petroleum products, coal processing chemicals and other materials that may be considered "hazardous materials" under applicable environmental laws and have the potential to 35 Table of Contents generate other materials, all of which may affect runoff or drainage water. In the event of environmental contamination or a release of these materials, we could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages and for the investigation and cleanup of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media, as well as abandoned and closed mines located on property we operate. Such claims may arise out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. The government extensively regulates mining operations, especially with respect to mine safety and health, which imposes significant actual and potential costs on us, and future regulation could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks to safety and health. As a result, the coal mining industry is subject to stringent safety and health standards. Fatal mining accidents in the United States in recent years have received national attention and have led to responses at the state and federal levels that have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of coal mining operations, particularly underground mining operations. More stringent state and federal mine safety laws and regulations have included increased sanctions for non-compliance. Moreover, future workplace accidents are likely to result in more stringent enforcement and possibly the passage of new laws and regulations. Within the last few years, the industry has seen enactment of the Federal Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 (the "MINER Act"), subsequent additional legislation and regulation imposing significant new safety initiatives and the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, imposes new mine safety information reporting requirements. The MINER Act significantly amended the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the "Mine Act"), imposing more extensive and stringent compliance standards, increasing criminal penalties and establishing a maximum civil penalty for non-compliance, and expanding the scope of federal oversight, inspection, and enforcement activities. Following the passage of the MINER Act, the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration ("MSHA") issued new or more stringent rules and policies on a variety of topics, including: • sealing off abandoned areas of underground coal mines; • mine safety equipment, training and emergency reporting requirements; • substantially increased civil penalties for regulatory violations; • training and availability of mine rescue teams; • underground "refuge alternatives" capable of sustaining trapped miners in the event of an emergency; • flame-resistant conveyor belt, fire prevention and detection, and use of air from the belt entry; and • post-accident two-way communications and electronic tracking systems. For example, in 2014, MSHA adopted a final rule that reduces the permissible concentration of respirable dust in underground coal mines from the current standard of 2.0 milligrams per cubic meter of air to 1.5 milligram per cubic meter. The rule has a phased implementation schedule, the final phase required to be implemented by August 2016. Under the phased approach, operators will be required to adopt new measures and procedures for dust sampling, record keeping, and medical surveillance. More recently, in September 2015, MSHA issued a proposed rule requiring the installation of proximity detection systems on underground coal hauling systems used on the mining section. Proximity detection is a technology that uses electronic sensors to detect motion and the distance between a miner and a machine. These systems provide audible and visual warnings, and automatically stop moving machines when miners are in the machines' path. These and other new safety rules could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. Subsequent to passage of the MINER Act, various coal producing 36 Table of Contents states, including West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky, have enacted legislation addressing issues such as mine safety and accident reporting, increased civil and criminal penalties, and increased inspections and oversight. Other states may pass similar legislation in the future. Additional federal and state legislation that would further increase mine safety regulation, inspection and enforcement, particularly with respect to underground mining operations, has also been considered. Although we are unable to quantify the full impact, implementing and complying with these new laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders and could result in harsher sanctions in the event of any violations. Please read "Part 1, Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws." Penalties, fines or sanctions levied by MSHA could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Surface and underground mines like ours and those of our competitors are continuously inspected by MSHA, which often leads to notices of violation. Recently, MSHA has been conducting more frequent and more comprehensive inspections. In addition, in July 2014, MSHA proposed a rule that revises its civil penalty assessment provisions and how regulators should approach calculating penalties, which, in some instances, could resulted in increased civil penalty assessments for medium and larger mine operators and contractors by 300 to 1,000 percent. MSHA issued a revised proposed rule in February 2015, but, to date, has not taken any further action. However, increased scrutiny by MSHA and enforcement against mining operations are likely to continue. On June 24, 2011, our subsidiary, CAM Mining LLC received notice that on June 23, 2011, MSHA commenced an action in the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Kentucky seeking injunctive relief as a result of alleged violations of Sections 103, 104, and 108 of the Mine Act occurring at Mine 28 in connection with an inspection on June 17, 2011 by MSHA inspectors. The complaint alleged that when MSHA inspectors arrived at Mine 28 to inspect the mine with respect to the allegations that employees had been smoking underground, CAM Mining LLC employees gave advance notice of the inspection to miners working underground and that this advance notice hindered, interfered with and delayed the inspection by MSHA. The complaint asserts that the MSHA inspectors did not find any evidence of smoking paraphernalia during the inspection, which was allegedly the result of this advance notice. On June 30, 2011, MSHA obtained a temporary restraining order prohibiting any advance notice of inspections in the future. That became a Permanent Injunction on July 14, 2011. The Permanent Injunction is for three years and expired on July 14, 2014. On June 17, 2011, MSHA also issued a 104(a) citation in this matter to the Mine for allegedly giving advance notice of the inspection. The citation was assessed at $10,000 and was settled for $8,000 in 2014 upon approval by the administrative law judge. As a result of these and future inspections and alleged violations and potential violations, we could be subject to material fines, penalties or sanctions. Any of our mines could be subject to a temporary or extended shut down as a result of an alleged MSHA violation. Any such penalties, fines or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain and/or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could prevent us from mining certain reserves. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations, and we can face delays, challenges to, and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits and approvals, including environmental permits. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the 37 Table of Contents continuance of ongoing mining operations or the development of future mining operations. In addition, the public has certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. Over the past few years, the length of time needed to bring a new surface mine into production has increased because of the increased time required to obtain necessary permits. The slowing pace at which permits are issued or renewed for new and existing mines has materially impacted production in Appalachia, but could also affect other regions in the future. Section 402 National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits and Section 404 CWA permits are required to discharge wastewater and discharge dredged or fill material into waters of the United States. Expansion of EPA jurisdiction over these areas has the potential to adversely impact our operations. For example, the EPA released a final rule in May 2015 that attempted to clarify federal jurisdiction under the CWA over waters of the United States, but a number of legal challenges to this rule are pending, and implementation of the rule has been stayed nationwide. To the extent the rule expands the scope of the CWA's jurisdiction, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas. Our surface coal mining operations typically require such permits to authorize such activities as the creation of slurry ponds, stream impoundments, and valley fills. Although the CWA gives the EPA a limited oversight role in the Section 404 permitting program, the EPA has recently asserted its authorities more forcefully to question, delay, and prevent issuance of some Section 404 permits for surface coal mining in Appalachia. Currently, significant uncertainty exists regarding the obtaining of permits under the CWA for coal mining operations in Appalachia due to various initiatives launched by the EPA regarding these permits. Our mining operations are subject to operating risks that could adversely affect production levels and operating costs. Our mining operations are subject to conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, resulting in decreased production levels and increased costs. These risks include: • unfavorable geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • changes in governmental regulation of the mining industry or the electric utility industry; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • accidental mine water flooding; • labor-related interruptions; • transportation delays; • mining and processing equipment unavailability and failures and unexpected maintenance problems; and • accidents, including fire and explosions from methane. Any of these conditions may increase the cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In general, mining accidents present a risk of various potential liabilities depending on the nature of the accident, the location, the proximity of employees or other persons to the accident scene and a range of other factors. Possible liabilities arising from a mining accident include workmen's 38 Table of Contents compensation claims or civil lawsuits for workplace injuries, claims for personal injury or property damage by people living or working nearby and fines and penalties including possible criminal enforcement against us and certain of our employees. In addition, a significant accident that results in a mine shut-down could give rise to liabilities for failure to meet the requirements of coal supply agreements especially if the counterparties dispute our invocation of the force majeure provisions of those agreements. We maintain insurance coverage to mitigate the risks of certain of these liabilities, including business interruption insurance, but those policies are subject to various exclusions and limitations and we cannot assure you that we will receive coverage under those policies for any personal injury, property damage or business interruption claims that may arise out of such an accident. Moreover, certain potential liabilities such as fines and penalties are not insurable risks. Thus, a serious mine accident may result in material liabilities that adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Fluctuations in transportation costs or disruptions in transportation services could increase competition or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive energy source or could make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. Significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other regions. For instance, coordination of the many eastern U.S. coal loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, the steeper average grades of the terrain and a more unionized workforce are all issues that combine to make shipments originating in the eastern United States inherently more expensive on a per-mile basis than shipments originating in the western United States. Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing regions limited the use of western coal in certain eastern markets. The increased competition could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We depend primarily upon railroads, barges and trucks to deliver coal to our customers. Disruption of any of these services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, accidents, mechanical difficulties and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In recent years, the states of Kentucky and West Virginia have increased enforcement of weight limits on coal trucks on their public roads. It is possible that other states may modify their laws to limit truck weight limits. Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in shipment delays and increased costs. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could reduce productivity and increase operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers. During periods of high demand for coal, the coal industry has experienced a shortage of skilled labor as well as rising labor and benefit costs, due in large part to demographic changes as existing miners retire at a faster rate than new miners are entering the workforce. If a shortage of experienced labor should occur or coal producers are unable to train enough skilled laborers, there could be an adverse impact on labor productivity, an increase in our costs and our ability to expand production may be limited. If coal 39 Table of Contents prices decrease or our labor prices increase, our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Unexpected increases in raw material costs, such as steel, diesel fuel and explosives could adversely affect our results of operations. Our coal mining operations are affected by commodity prices. We use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel, explosives and other raw materials in our mining operations, and volatility in the prices for these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Steel prices and the prices of scrap steel, natural gas and coking coal consumed in the production of iron and steel fluctuate significantly and may change unexpectedly. Additionally, a limited number of suppliers exist for explosives, and any of these suppliers may divert their products to other industries. Shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of explosives, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of supply contracts under which these raw materials are obtained, could increase the prices and limit the ability of us or our contractors to obtain these supplies. Future volatility in the price of steel, diesel fuel, explosives or other raw materials will impact our operating expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. If we are not able to acquire replacement coal reserves that are economically recoverable, our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders depend substantially on obtaining coal reserves that have geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the coal quality needed by our customers. Because we deplete our reserves as we mine coal, our future success and growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we fail to acquire or develop additional reserves, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines with certain valuable coal characteristics also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. Inaccuracies in our estimates of coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs. We base our coal reserve and non-reserve coal deposit estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which is periodically audited by independent engineering firms. These estimates are also based on the expected cost of production and projected sale prices and assumptions concerning the permitability and advances in mining technology. The estimates of coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits as to both quantity and quality are periodically updated to reflect the production of coal from the reserves, updated geologic models and mining recovery data, recently acquired coal reserves and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable 40 Table of Contents factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • quality of coal; • geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from our experience in areas where we currently mine; • the percentage of coal in the ground ultimately recoverable; • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; • the timing for the development of reserves; and • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the quantities and qualities of the economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves as prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary materially due to changes in the above factors and assumptions. Actual production from identified coal reserve and non-reserve coal deposit areas or properties and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations may vary materially from estimates. Accordingly, these estimates may not reflect our actual coal reserves or non-reserve coal deposits. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. We invest in non-coal natural resource assets, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Part of our business strategy is to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions, which includes investing in non-coal natural resources assets. Our executive officers do not have experience investing in or operating non-coal natural resources assets and we may be unable to hire additional management with relevant expertise in operating such assets. Acquisitions of non-coal natural resource assets could expose us to new and additional operating and regulatory risks, including commodity price risk, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures our general partner is required to deduct from operating surplus each quarter could increase in the future, resulting in a decrease in available cash from operating surplus that could be distributed to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus each quarter estimated maintenance capital expenditures as opposed to actual maintenance capital expenditures in order to reduce disparities in operating surplus caused by fluctuating maintenance capital expenditures, such as reserve replacement costs or refurbishment or replacement of mine equipment. Our annual estimated maintenance capital expenditures for purposes of calculating operating surplus is based on our estimates of the amounts of expenditures we will be required to make in the future to maintain our long-term operating capacity. Our partnership agreement does not cap 41 Table of Contents the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. The amount of our estimated maintenance capital expenditures may be more than our actual maintenance capital expenditures, which will reduce the amount of available cash from operating surplus that we would otherwise have available for distribution to unitholders. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, with any change approved by the conflicts committee. In addition to estimated maintenance capital expenditures, reimbursement of expenses incurred by our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash from operating surplus that we would otherwise have available for distribution to our unitholders. Please read "—Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us—Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner." Existing and future laws and regulations regulating the emission of sulfur dioxide and other compounds could affect coal consumers and as a result reduce the demand for our coal. A reduction in demand for our coal could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants and other consumers of our coal. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. A certain portion of our coal has a medium to high sulfur content, which results in increased sulfur dioxide emissions when combusted and therefore the use of our coal imposes certain additional costs on customers. Accordingly, these laws and regulations may affect demand and prices for our higher sulfur coal. Please read "Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws." Federal and state laws restricting the emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct our business or sell our coal could adversely affect our operations and demand for our coal. One by-product of burning coal is carbon dioxide, which EPA considers a GHG, and a major source of concern with respect to climate change and global warming. Future regulation of GHG in the United States could occur pursuant to future U.S. treaty commitments, new domestic legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program or regulation by the EPA. For example, on the international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that agreed on December 12, 2015 to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France, that calls for countries to set their own GHG emission targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emission targets; however, the agreement does not set binding GHG emission reduction targets. In August 2015, the EPA issued its final Clean Power Plan (the "CPP"), rules that establish carbon pollution standards for power plants, called CO2 emission performance rates. The EPA expects each state to develop implementation plans for power plants in its state to meet the individual state targets established in the CPP. The EPA has given states the option to develop compliance plans for annual rate-based reductions (pounds per megawatt hour) or mass-based tonnage limits for CO2. The state plans are due in September 2016, subject to potential extensions of up to two years for final plan submission. The compliance period begins in 2022, and emission reductions will be phased in up to 2030. The EPA also proposed a federal compliance plan to implement the CPP in the event that an approvable state plan is not submitted to the EPA. Judicial challenges have been filed. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay of the implementation of the CPP before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ("Circuit Court") even issued a decision. By its terms, this stay will remain in effect throughout the pendency of the appeals process including at the 42 Table of Contents Circuit Court and the Supreme Court through any certiorari petition that may be granted. The stay suspends the rule, including the requirement that states submit their initial plans by September 2016. The Supreme Court's stay applies only to EPA's regulations for CO2 emissions from existing power plants and will not affect EPA's standards for new power plants. It is not yet clear how the either the Circuit Court or the Supreme Court will rule on the legality of the CPP. If the rules were upheld at the conclusion of this appellate process and were implemented in their current form, demand for coal will likely be further decreased. The EPA also issued a final rule for new coal-fired power plants in August 2015, which essentially set performance standards for coal-fired power plants that requires partial carbon capture and sequestration. Additional legal challenges have been filed against the EPA's rules for new power plants. The EPA's GHG rules for new and existing power plants, taken together, have the potential to severely reduce demand for coal. In addition, passage of any comprehensive federal climate change and energy legislation could impact the demand for coal. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by North American electric power generators could reduce the price of coal that we mine and sell, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Many states and regions have adopted greenhouse gas initiatives and certain governmental bodies have or are considering the imposition of fees or taxes based on the emission of greenhouse gases by certain facilities, including coal-fired electric generating facilities. For example, in 2005, ten northeastern states entered into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative agreement (the "RGGI"), calling for implementation of a cap and trade program aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in the participating states. The members of RGGI have established in statute and/or regulation a carbon dioxide trading program. Auctions for carbon dioxide allowances under the program began in September 2008. Though New Jersey withdrew from RGGI in 2011, since its inception, several additional northeastern states and Canadian provinces have joined as participants or observers. Following the RGGI model, five western states launched the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative to identify, evaluate and implement collective and cooperative methods of reducing greenhouse gases in the region to 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. These states were joined by two additional states and four Canadian provinces and became collectively known as the Western Climate Initiative Partners. However, in November 2011, six states withdrew, leaving California and the four Canadian provinces as members. At a January 12, 2012 stakeholder meeting, this group confirmed a commitment and timetable to create the largest carbon market in North America and provide a model to guide future efforts to establish national approaches in both Canada and the U.S. to reduce GHG emissions. It is likely that these regional efforts will continue. Many coal-fired plants have already closed or announced plans to close and proposed new construction projects have also come under additional scrutiny with respect to GHG emissions. There have been an increasing number of protests and challenges to the permitting of new coal-fired power plants by environmental organizations and state regulators for concerns related to greenhouse gas emissions. Other state regulatory authorities have also rejected the construction of new coal-fueled power plants based on the uncertainty surrounding the potential costs associated with GHG emissions from these plants under future laws limiting the emissions of carbon dioxide. In addition, several permits issued to new coal-fired power plants without limits on GHG emissions have been appealed to the EPA's Environmental Appeals Board. In addition, over 30 states have adopted mandatory "renewable portfolio standards," which require electric utilities to obtain a certain percentage of their electric generation portfolio from renewable resources by a certain date. These standards range generally from 10% to 30%, over time periods that generally extend from the present until between 2020 and 2030. Other states may adopt similar requirements, and federal legislation is a possibility in this area. To the extent these requirements affect our current and prospective customers; they may reduce the demand for coal-fired power, and may affect long-term demand for our coal. 43 Table of Contents If mandatory restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions are imposed, the ability to capture and store large volumes of carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants may be a key mitigation technology to achieve emissions reductions while meeting projected energy demands. A number of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to encourage the development and use of carbon capture and storage technology have been proposed or enacted. On February 3, 2010, President Obama sent a memorandum to the heads of fourteen Executive Departments and Federal Agencies establishing an Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage ("CCS"). The goal was to develop a comprehensive and coordinated Federal strategy to speed the commercial development and deployment of clean coal technologies. On August 12, 2010, the Task Force delivered a series of recommendations on overcoming the barriers to the widespread, cost-effective deployment of CCS within ten years. The report concludes that CCS can play an important role in domestic GHG emissions reductions while preserving the option of using abundant domestic fossil energy resources. The EPA also recently finalized new source performance standards for GHG for new coal and oil-fired power plants, which requires partial carbon capture and sequestration to comply. However, widespread cost-effective deployment of CCS will occur only if the technology is commercially available at economically competitive prices and supportive national policy frameworks are in place. In the meantime, the EPA and other regulators are using existing laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs from major sources, including coal-fired power plants that may require the use of "best available control technology" or "BACT." As state permitting authorities continue to consider GHG control requirements as part of major source permitting BACT requirements, costs associated with new facility permitting and use of coal could increase substantially. A growing concern is the possibility that BACT will be determined to be the use of an alternative fuel to coal. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less GHG emissions, possibly further reducing demand for our coal, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Please read "Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Carbon Dioxide Emissions." Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim mined property. Our inability to acquire or failure to maintain, obtain or renew these surety bonds could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce coal, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We are required under federal and state laws to place and maintain bonds to secure our obligations to repair and return property to its approximate original state after it has been mined (often referred to as "reclamation") and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. Federal and state governments could increase bonding requirements in the future. Certain business transactions, such as coal leases and other obligations, may also require bonding. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our surety bonds. Our bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including supporting letters of credit or posting cash collateral or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. The failure to maintain or the inability to acquire sufficient surety bonds, as required by state and federal laws, could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the loss of our mining permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including: • the lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of new surety bonds; • the ability of current and future surety bond issuers to increase required collateral; and • the exercise by third-party surety bond holders of their right to refuse to renew the surety bonds. 44 Table of Contents We maintain surety bonds with third parties for reclamation expenses and other miscellaneous obligations. It is possible that we may in the future have difficulty maintaining our surety bonds for mine reclamation. Due to adverse economic conditions and the volatility of the financial markets, surety bond providers may be less willing to provide us with surety bonds or maintain existing surety bonds or may demand terms that are less favorable to us than the terms we currently receive. We may have greater difficulty satisfying the liquidity requirements under our existing surety bond contracts. As of December 31, 2015, we had $58.5 million in reclamation surety bonds, secured by $22.4 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit agreement. Based on the March 2016 amendment, our credit agreement provides for a $80 million working capital revolving credit facility, of which up to $30.0 million may be used for letters of credit. If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility for additional letters of credit, we may be unable to obtain or renew surety bonds required for our mining operations. For more information, please read "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Agreement." If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity or have other resources to satisfy our surety and bonding requirements, our operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. If a substantial portion of our supply contracts terminate or if any of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, and we are unable to successfully renegotiate or replace these contracts on comparable terms, then our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. We sell a material portion of our coal under supply contracts. As of December 31, 2015, we had sales commitments for approximately 92% of our estimated coal production (including purchased coal to supplement our production) for the year ending December 31, 2016. When our current contracts with customers expire, our customers may decide not to extend or enter into new contracts. Of our total future committed tons, under the terms of the supply contracts, we will ship 60% in 2016, 35% in 2017, and 5% in 2018. We derived approximately 83.9% of our total coal revenues from coal sales to our ten largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2015, with affiliates of our top three customers accounting for approximately 45.2% of our coal revenues during that period. In the absence of long-term contracts, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including different pricing terms. Negotiations to extend existing contracts or enter into new long-term contracts with those and other customers may not be successful, and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply contracts or may significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us. In addition, interruption in the purchases by or operations of our principal customers could significantly affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Unscheduled maintenance outages at our customers' power plants and unseasonably moderate weather are examples of conditions that might cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Our mines may have difficulty identifying alternative purchasers of their coal if their existing customers suspend or terminate their purchases. For additional information relating to these contracts, please read "Part I, Item 1. Business—Customers—Coal Supply Contracts." Certain provisions in our long-term coal supply contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, may result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract. Price adjustment, "price re-opener" and other similar provisions in our supply contracts may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Price re-opener provisions typically require the parties to agree on a new price. Failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price re-opener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 45 Table of Contents Coal supply contracts also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply contracts also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. In addition, certain of our coal supply contracts permit the customer to terminate the agreement in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond a specified limit. Our coal lessees' mining operations and their financial condition and results of operations are subject to some of the same risks and uncertainties that we face as a mine operator. The mining operations and financial condition and results of operations of our coal lessees are subject to the same risks and uncertainties that we face as a mine operator. If any such risks were to occur, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the lessees could be adversely affected and as a result our coal royalty revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. If our coal lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our royalty revenues could decrease. We depend on our coal lessees to effectively manage their operations on the leased properties. The lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations within the constraints of their leases, including decisions relating to: • marketing of the coal mined; • mine plans, including the amount to be mined and the method of mining; • processing and blending coal; • expansion plans and capital expenditures; • credit risk of their customers; • permitting; • insurance and surety bonding; • acquisition of surface rights and other coal estates; • employee wages; • transportation arrangements; • compliance with applicable laws, including environmental laws; and • mine closure and reclamation. A failure on the part of one of the coal lessees to make royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property and enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we might not be able to find a replacement lessee or enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the existing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated coal 46 Table of Contents reserves, since industry trends toward consolidation favor larger-scale, higher-technology mining operations in order to increase productivity. Coal lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of minimum royalty payments. Coal supply contracts often require operators to satisfy their obligations to their customers with resources mined from specific reserves or may provide the operator flexibility to source the coal from various reserves. Several factors may influence a coal lessee's decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the coal lessee's lease with us, mining conditions, mine operating costs, cost and availability of transportation, and customer specifications. If a coal lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production on our properties will decrease, and we will receive lower royalty revenues. A coal lessee may incorrectly report royalty revenues, which might not be identified by our lessee audit process or our mine inspection process or, if identified, might be identified in a subsequent period. We depend on our lessees to correctly report production and royalty revenues on a monthly basis. Our regular lessee audits and mine inspections may not discover any irregularities in these reports or, if we do discover errors, we might not identify them in the reporting period in which they occurred. Any undiscovered reporting errors could result in a loss of royalty revenues and errors identified in subsequent periods could lead to accounting disputes as well as disputes with the coal lessees, or internal control deficiencies. Defects in title in the coal properties that we own or loss of any leasehold interests could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on leased properties. A title defect or the loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. Title to most of our owned and leased properties and the associated mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our grantors or lessors, as the case may be. Our right to mine some coal reserves would be adversely affected by defects in title or boundaries or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interest could delay the exploration and development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property. Mining operations from time to time may rely on a lease that we are unable to renew on terms at least as favorable, if at all. In such event, we may have to close down or significantly alter the sequence of mining operations or incur additional costs to obtain or renew such leases, which could adversely affect our future coal production. If we mine on property that we do not control, we could incur liability for such mining. Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect our production and labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages. Currently, none of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. However, all of our work force may not remain union-free in the future. If some or all of our work force were to become unionized, it could adversely affect our productivity and labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages. 47 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel, including senior management of our general partner. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or key employee could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services were no longer available. If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 and counterpart state laws and regulations establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of underground mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed both periodically by our management and annually by independent third-party engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Please read "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Asset Retirement Obligations." Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including acquisitions) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, distributions to unitholders and future business opportunities; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Increases in our total indebtedness would increase our total interest expense, which would in turn reduce our forecasted cash available for distribution. As of December 31, 2015 our current portion of long-term debt that will be funded from cash flows from operating activities during 2016 was approximately $41.5 million. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. 48 Table of Contents Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities and limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; • grant liens; • make certain loans or investments; • dispose of assets outside the ordinary course of business, including the issuance and sale of capital stock of our subsidiaries; • change the line of business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; • enter into a merger, consolidation or make acquisitions; or • make distributions if an event of default occurs. In addition, our payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce cash available for distribution on our units. Our credit agreement limits our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others, which would apply to us and our subsidiaries: • failure to pay principal, interest or any other amount when due; • breach of the representations or warranties in the credit agreement; • failure to comply with the covenants in the credit agreement; • cross-default to other indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency; • failure to have adequate resources to maintain, and obtain, operating permits as necessary to conduct our operations substantially as contemplated by the mining plans used in preparing the financial projections; and • a change of control. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement will be secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit agreement, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. For more information, please read "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Agreement." 49 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Royal owns and controls our general partner. Our general partner has fiduciary duties to its owners, and the interests of its owners may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders. Royal owns and controls our general partner. Please read "Part I, Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Sale of our General Partner by Wexford." Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between its owners and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its owners over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its owners, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Royal to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces fiduciary duties owed by our general partner and also restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus; • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $25.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; 50 Table of Contents • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, Royal, its owners and entities in which they have an interest may compete with us. Please read "—Our sponsor, Royal and affiliates of our general partner may compete with us." Common units held by unitholders who are not eligible citizens will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in mineral leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who own our common units. As used in this report, an eligible citizen means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in mineral leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, an eligible citizen must be: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of U.S. citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an eligible citizen run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally; our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. 51 Table of Contents In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • whether to exercise its limited call right; • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • whether to exercise its registration rights; • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in the best interest of our partnership; 52 Table of Contents • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: (1)approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; (2)approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; (3)on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or (4)fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in subclauses (3) and (4) above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our sponsor, Royal, and affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, affiliates of our general partner, including our sponsor, Royal, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. In addition, Royal and its affiliates may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Further, Royal and its affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional coal properties or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Royal. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. 53 Table of Contents Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then-current general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units, which would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Royal, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we do not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 21, 2016, Royal owned an aggregate of approximately 85% of our common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no 54 Table of Contents units held by the holders of the subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a "change of control" without the vote or consent of the unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). As of March 21, 2016, Royal owned an aggregate of approximately 87% of our common units and approximately 77% of our subordinated units. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; 55 Table of Contents • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by Royal or other large holders. As of March 21, 2016, we had 76,919,137 common units and 12,355,299 subordinated units outstanding. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at the end of the subordination period. On March 21, 2016, we issued 60,000,000 common units to Royal in a private placement. In connection with this issuance, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Royal which grants Royal piggyback registration rights under certain circumstances with respect to these common units. In addition, under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates (including Royal) have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Sales by Royal or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by Royal) after the subordination period has ended. As of March 21, 2016, Royal owned approximately 87% of the outstanding common units and 77% of our outstanding subordinated units. 56 Table of Contents Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for our obligations. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act"), we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. It may be determined that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to (i) remove or replace our general partner, (ii) approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or (iii) take other action under our partnership agreement constitutes "participation in the control" of our business. A limited partner that participates in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act may be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware, to the same extent as our general partner. This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us under the reasonable belief that the limited partner is a general partner. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our general partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our general partner. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Assuming we are able to maintain the listing of our common units on the NYSE, as a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Please read "—Risks Inherent in Our Business—Our common units have been suspended from trading on the NYSE and may cease to be listed on the NYSE should we lose the appeal of the suspension and delisting of our common units. Furthermore, even if we were to successfully appeal the suspension and delisting of our common units from the NYSE, we may be unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements." Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If our partnership status for U.S. federal income tax purposes changes or we become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the value of our common units may be substantially reduced. We are currently treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us is treated as a partnership only if it satisfies a "qualifying income" requirement. Based on our current operations we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will be treated as a partnership. We may, however, decide that it is in our best interest to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A failure to meet the qualifying income requirement, 57 Table of Contents a change in current law, or a decision to elect corporate treatment, could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Any distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our treatment as a corporation may result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity level taxation for federal or state tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the value of our common units. Although we monitor our level of non-qualifying income closely and attempt to manage our operations to ensure compliance with the qualifying income requirement, given the continued weak demand and low prices for met and steam coal, there is a risk that we will not be able to continue to meet the qualifying income level necessary to maintain our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a publicly traded partnership, we may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of our gross income in each year consists of certain identified types of "qualifying income." In addition to qualifying income, like many other publicly traded partnerships, we also generate ancillary income that may not constitute qualifying income. Although we monitor our level of gross income that may not constitute qualifying income closely and attempt to manage our operations to ensure compliance with the qualifying income requirement, given the continued weak demand and low prices for met and steam coal, the sale of which generates qualifying income, there is a risk that we will not be able to continue to meet the qualifying income level necessary to maintain our status as a publicly-traded partnership. To the extent we become aware that we may not generate or have not generated sufficient qualifying income with respect to a period, we can and would take action to preserve our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, including seeking relief from the IRS. Section 7704(e) of the Internal Revenue Code provides for the possibility of relief upon, among other things, determination by the IRS that such failure to meet the qualifying income requirement was inadvertent. However, we are unaware of examples of such relief being sought by a publicly traded partnership. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Obama administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2022. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama administration's proposal, or other similar proposals, could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded 58 Table of Contents partnerships as corporations, upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has been considering changes to its private letter ruling policy concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of section 7704 of the Code. The implementation of changes to this policy could include the modification or revocation of existing rulings, including ours. Any modifications to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest may substantially reduce the value of our common units. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce the value of our common units. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs may substantially reduce the value of our common units Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, the value of our common units may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due with respect to that income. We anticipate engaging in transactions to reduce our indebtedness and manage our liquidity that generate taxable income (including cancellation of indebtedness income) allocable to unitholders, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed the value of your investment in us. In response to current market conditions, from time to time we may consider engaging in transactions to delever us and manage our liquidity that would result in income and gain to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, we may sell assets and use the 59 Table of Contents proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, in which case, you would be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, we may pursue opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications and extinguishment of our existing debt that would result in "cancellation of indebtedness income" (also referred to as "COD income") being allocated to our unitholders as ordinary taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed the current value of your investment in us. Entities taxed as corporations may have net operating losses to offset COD income or may otherwise qualify for an exception to the recognition of COD income, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency exceptions. As long as we are treated as a partnership, however, these exceptions are not available to the partnership and are only available to a unitholder if the unitholder itself is insolvent or in bankruptcy. As a result, these exceptions generally would not apply to prevent the taxation of COD income allocated to our unitholders. The ultimate tax effect of any such income allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position, including, for example, the availability of any suspended passive losses that may offset some portion of the allocable COD income. Unitholders may, however, be allocated substantial amounts of ordinary income subject to taxation, without any ability to offset such allocated income against any capital losses attributable to the unitholder's ultimate disposition of its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them of COD income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis therein, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our non-recourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of your units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raise issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. 60 Table of Contents We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted for our 2015 taxable year and may not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method thereafter. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change our allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner in us with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. 61 Table of Contents A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one calendar year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. Certain U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Fiscal Year 2016 Budget proposed by the President recommends elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences relating to coal exploration and development (the "Budget Proposal"). The Budget Proposal would (1) eliminate current deductions and 60-month amortization for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, (2) repeal the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties, (3) repeal capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties, and (4) exclude from the definition of domestic production gross receipts all gross receipts derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of coal, other hard mineral fossil fuels, or primary products thereof. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Budget Proposal or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in a number of states, most of which also impose an income tax on 62 Table of Contents corporations and other entities. In addition, many of these states also impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 