Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following is a summary of risk factors relating to the operations of the Bank and the Company. These risk factors are not necessarily presented in order of significance.Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Our results of operations are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, MBS, and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed-rate loans, while the majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are shorter term, and therefore subject to a greater degree of interest rate fluctuations. This type of risk is known as interest rate risk and is affected by prevailing economic and competitive conditions, including monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. The impact of changes in interest rates is generally observed on the income statement. The magnitude of the impact will be determined by the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which either reprice or mature within a given period of time. This difference provides an indication of the extent to which our net interest rate spread will be impacted by changes in interest rates. In addition, changes in interest rates will impact the expected level of repricing of the Bank's mortgage-related assets and callable debt securities. Generally, as interest rates decline, the amount of interest-earning assets expected to reprice will increase as borrowers have an economic incentive to reduce the cost of their mortgage or debt, which would negatively impact the Bank's interest income. Conversely, as interest rates rise, the amount of interest-earning assets expected to reprice will decline as the economic incentive to refinance the mortgage or debt is diminished. As this occurs, the amount of interest-earning assets repricing could diminish to the point where interest-bearing liabilities reprice to a higher interest rate, at a faster pace, than interest-earning assets, thus negatively impacting the Bank's net interest income. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition as AFS securities are reported at estimated fair value. We increase or decrease our stockholders' equity, specifically accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of our AFS securities, net of deferred taxes. Increases in interest rates generally decrease the fair value of AFS securities. Decreases in the fair value of AFS securities would, therefore, adversely impact stockholders' equity. Changes in interest rates, as they relate to customers, can also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In times of rising interest rates, default risk may increase among borrowers with ARM loans as the rates on their loans adjust upward and their payments increase. Fluctuations in interest rates also affect customer demand for deposit products. Local competition could affect our ability to attract deposits, or could result in us paying more than competitors for deposits.In addition to general changes in interest rates, changes that affect the shape of the yield curve could negatively impact the Bank. The Bank's interest-bearing liabilities are generally priced based on short-term interest rates while the majority of the Bank's interest-earning assets are priced based on long-term interest rates. Income for the Bank is primarily driven by the spread between these rates. As a result, a steeper yield curve, meaning long-term interest rates are significantly higher than short-term interest rates, would provide the Bank with a better opportunity to increase net interest income. When the yield curve is flat, meaning long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates are essentially the same, or when the yield curve is 31inverted, meaning long-term interest rates are lower than short-term interest rates, the yield between interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that reprice is compressed or diminished and would likely negatively impact the Bank's net interest income.An economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our primary lending emphasis is the origination and purchase of one- to four-family first mortgage loans on residential properties; therefore, we are particularly exposed to downturns in regional housing markets and, to a lesser extent, the U.S. housing market. The primary risks inherent in our one- to four-family loan portfolio are declines in economic conditions, elevated levels of unemployment or underemployment, and declines in residential real estate values. Any one or a combination of these events may have an adverse impact on borrowers' ability to repay their loans, which could result in increased delinquencies, non-performing assets, loan losses, and future loan loss provisions.Additionally, we have a concentration of loans secured in Kansas and Missouri due to our lending practices. Approximately 63% of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by property located in Kansas, and approximately 19% is comprised of loans secured by property located in Missouri. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in local economies and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in these local economies such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control, could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. Currently, there is not a single employer or industry in the area on which the majority of our customers are dependent. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities and will continue to increase our operational and compliance costs. Our business is highly regulated; in addition, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed, and will continue to significantly change, the current banking regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. As of July 2011 the Bank's primary federal regulator became the OCC while the Company, as a savings and loan holding company, is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. The Dodd-Frank Act gave various federal agencies significant discretion in drafting a broad range of new rules and regulations. The full details and impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC, FRB, and the FDIC. These regulatory authorities exercise broad discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank's ACL, and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws, including a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, like the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The CFPB also has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The Company does not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion, but it may at some point in the future. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws and regulations of the CFPB by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. Change in the authority and oversight of any of these agencies, and of other agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation, or additional deposit insurance premiums, could have a material impact on our operations. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has issued a number of new regulations and changes to existing consumer protections regulations, including new rules, most (including the qualified mortgage rule) effective January 10, 2014, which generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years. Compliance with these rules has, and may continue to, change our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans and increase our overall regulatory compliance costs. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of 32mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities.The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies and bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions, and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets by charging higher assessments on institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.The potential exists for additional laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending practices, regulatory capital limits, interest rate risk management, and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements and/or assessing monetary penalties. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OCC and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of investors. The CFPB enforces consumer protection laws and regulations for the benefit of the consumer and not the protection or benefit of investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may continue to increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and securities, the products we offer, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability.It is difficult to predict at this time the full impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that, at a minimum, they will continue to increase our operating and compliance costs.Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. While we are one of the largest mortgage loan originators in the state of Kansas, we compete in the same market areas as local, regional, and national banks, credit unions, mortgage brokerage firms, investment banking firms, investment brokerage firms, and savings institutions. We must also compete with online investment and mortgage brokerages and online banks that are not confined to any specific market area. Many of these competitors operate on a national or regional level, are a conglomerate of various financial services providers housed under one corporation, or otherwise have substantially greater financial or technological resources than the Bank. We compete primarily on the basis of the interest rates offered to depositors and the terms of loans offered to borrowers. Should we face competitive pressure to increase deposit rates or decrease loan rates, our net interest income could be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors may offer products and services that we do not or cannot provide, as certain deposit and loan products fall outside of our accepted level of risk. Our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our local market areas.We may be required to provide remedial consideration to borrowers whose loans we purchase from correspondent and nationwide lenders if it is discovered that the originating company did not properly comply with lending regulations during the origination process. We purchase whole one- to four-family mortgage loans from correspondent and nationwide lenders. While loans purchased on a loan-by-loan basis from correspondent lenders are underwritten by the Bank's underwriters and loans purchased in bulk packages from correspondent and nationwide lenders are evaluated on a certain set of criteria before being purchased, we are still subject to some risks associated with the loan origination process itself. By law, loan originators are required to comply with lending regulations at all times during the origination process. Any compliance related risks associated with the origination process itself is effectively transferred from the originating company to the Bank once the Bank purchases the loan. Should, at any point, it be discovered that an instance of noncompliance occurred by the originating company during the origination process, the Bank would still be held responsible and required to remedy the issue for the loans it purchased from the originator. Remedial actions can include such actions as refunding interest paid to the borrower and adjusting the contractual interest rate on the loan to the current market rate if advantageous to the borrower. 33The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.As discussed in "Regulation and Supervision – New Capital Rules", effective January 1, 2015, the Company and the Bank will be subject to new capital requirements under regulations adopted by the federal banking regulators to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These new requirements establish the following minimum capital ratios:(1) CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, there is a new requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, in an amount greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets over the minimum capital required by each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on the organization's ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in, beginning January 1, 2016, requiring during 2016 a buffer amount greater than 0.625% in order to avoid these limitations, and with the amount increasing by that amount each year until beginning January 1, 2019, the buffer amount must be greater than 2.5% in order to avoid the limitation. The new regulations also change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting these various capital requirements, as well as the risk-weights of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios.Under the new regulations, in order to be considered well-capitalized for prompt corrective action purposes, the Bank will be required to maintain the following ratios: (1) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of at least 10.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%. Although we continue to evaluate the impact the more restrictive Basel III capital rules will have on the Bank, we currently anticipate the Bank will remain well-capitalized in accordance with the regulatory standards.Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company's financial statements and reported earnings.Accounting standard-setting bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, periodically change and approve new financial accounting and reporting standards that affect the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control and could have a meaningful impact on its consolidated financial statements.The Company's ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company. The long-term ability of the Company to pay dividends to its stockholders is based primarily upon the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company, and also on the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends according to the cash dividend payout policy.The Company's risk-management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.The Company maintains an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor, report, and control the risks that it faces. These include interest-rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, reputation risk, and compliance and litigation risk. While the Company assesses and improves this program on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its approach and framework for risk management and related controls will effectively mitigate risk and limit losses in its business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in the Company's risk-management program, or if its controls break down, the performance and value of its business could be adversely affected. Risks associated with cyber-security, information system failures, interruptions, or other breaches of security involving our systems or network, or those of our third-party vendors, may negatively affect the Bank in multiple ways.The Bank relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business. It is also dependent on its network and information processing systems and, in some cases, those of the Bank's third-party vendors. The Bank has a business continuity plan which is reviewed and updated on a regular basis and is tested periodically. The Bank also reviews and evaluates business continuity programs implemented by its third-party vendors. Cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect the Bank's systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority. Disruption or failure of those systems, or a breach in security, may adversely affect the Bank's operations, financial performance, or 34reputation. Furthermore, as cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, the Bank may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance its protective measures, or to investigate and remediate any identified information security vulnerabilities. While the Bank has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of the Bank's information systems or network in place, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.