Item 1A. Risk Factors North American and global steel production volumes and demand for steel are impacted by regional and global economic conditions and by conditions in our key end markets, including automotive, consumer appliance, industrial equipment and construction markets. Global steel production volumes and the demand for steel in North America and worldwide are impacted by, and will continue to be impacted by, global economic conditions and conditions in key end markets, including automotive, consumer appliance, industrial equipment and construction markets. We derive a substantial portion of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs from providing services to North American steel mills. Our Revenues After Raw Materials Costs and earnings are primarily driven by the volume of steel production at our customers’ mills; accordingly, declines in our customers’ production volumes have a direct negative impact on our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs and other results of operations. Many factors may materially adversely affect production by our steel customers, including, but not limited to: • decreases in demand for steel or failure of demand to increase to the extent forecasted, particularly in key end markets, including automotive, consumer appliance, industrial equipment and construction markets; • failure of the economy to fully recover from the recession that commenced in 2008, or the advent of any future recessions; and • increases in imports of steel that may result in an oversupply of steel in North America, our largest market, and may displace our North American customers’ steel production, including increases resulting from changes in currency rates, import tariffs or other trade regulations. We cannot predict the impact of global economic conditions and conditions in key steel end markets, such as automotive, consumer appliance, industrial equipment and construction markets, on the demand for and production of steel in North America and worldwide. During a material economic downturn in the steel industry or due to company-specific events, some of our customers could experience financial difficulties and close operations or significantly decrease production permanently or for an extended period at sites that we service. The resulting decrease in business volumes could result in a decreased need for our services and materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, during the first half of 2009, many of our customers significantly reduced or altogether stopped producing steel at certain facilities. We rely on a number of significant customers and contracts, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, our largest customer, United States Steel (together with its affiliates), accounted for approximately 24% of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs, and our top 10 customers accounted for 79% of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs. A reduction in activity by a customer at one or more sites that we service (or its decision to idle or permanently close any customer site we service) would reduce the revenue we receive from such customer at those sites. A loss of a significant customer or the partial loss of a customer’s business through the termination or non-renewal of one of its significant contracts with us, or temporary or permanent shut down of one or more sites, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and other results of operations. In general, our contracts are not terminable without cause. However, certain of our contracts, including contracts with our largest customers, contain provisions providing for the right to terminate for convenience through the payment of significant scheduled termination fees based on the remaining terms of the contracts. Further, notwithstanding our contractual rights, we may not have an effective remedy if one of our largest customers attempts to unilaterally change the terms in our contracts. 19 Table of Contents In addition, because our business is conducted under long-term contracts (often servicing the same steel company under separate, site-specific or service-specific contracts) and is highly dependent on business relationships, it could be very difficult to replace a current customer or contract with a new customer or contract. Even if we were to replace a significant customer or contract, we might not be able to find another customer or enter into a replacement contract that would provide us with comparable revenue. We may lose significant customers or contracts in the future, and any resulting losses could materially adversely affect results of operations. Contracts and contract renewals we enter into in the future may not include tiered pricing structures and/or minimum monthly fees, each of which stabilizes our revenue in the event of volume fluctuations. Some of our operations are subject to market price and inventory risk arising from changes in commodity prices. Although significant portions of our operations are more sensitive to changes in the volume of steel production than to changes in prices, certain of our operations subject us directly to price and/or inventory risk. In particular: • we routinely maintain a limited quantity of unsold scrap inventory; • there are occasions when we may purchase quantities of raw materials in excess of immediate sales commitments. Similarly, we may have contractual commitments to provide certain raw materials to customers without a corresponding right to purchase all of the materials required to fulfill our commitment; • we typically have the right to sell for our own account, subject to royalty payments to the host mill, slag and certain other co-products under our contracts; and • we generate a portion of our revenue in our raw materials procurement activities from procurement fees that can be influenced by changes in prices, market conditions and competition. Our global raw materials procurement business is structured such that our purchases of raw materials are typically matched with customer orders, which minimizes inventory and price risk. However, we will from time to time take measured positions in raw materials inventory or experience a delay between the time all or a portion of the raw materials are purchased or sold by us and the time the raw materials are matched to customer purchase or sale orders. As a result, we may be subject to losses arising from changes in commodity prices. If we are unable to manage inventory or price risk, our results of operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to make accurate estimates in bidding for long-term contracts, our profitability and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The majority of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs is derived from customers’ sites where we have long-term contracts that typically have a term of five to 10 years. When bidding for a job, we are required to estimate the amount of production at a particular steel mill and the costs of providing services at that mill. In general, the higher the estimated volume of steel production at a customer site, the lower the unit price per volume of product handled or service provided that we can offer. Other estimates that will determine the unit price per volume that we can offer include local labor, transportation and equipment costs. If our volume estimates for a contract ultimately prove to be too high, or our cost estimates prove to be too low, our profitability and cash flows under that contract will be adversely affected. Operating in various international jurisdictions subjects us to a variety of risks. We currently operate at customer sites in 11 countries, and during the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 we derived approximately 26% of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs from providing services and products to steel mills outside of North America. Due to the extensive diversification of our international operations, we are subject to a higher level of risk than some other companies relating to international conflicts, 20 Table of Contents wars, internal civil unrest, trade embargoes and acts of terrorism. As we expand internationally, we will further become exposed to a variety of risks that may materially adversely affect results of operations, cash flows or financial position. These include the following: • periodic economic downturns in the countries in which we do business; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • customs matters and changes in trade policy or tariff regulations or other impositions of export restrictions; • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls and hard currency shortages; • changes in regulatory requirements in the countries in which we do business; • labor relations and works’ council and other labor requirements; • higher tax rates and potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, adverse tax withholding requirements and double taxation; • longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • political, economic and social instability, civil unrest, terrorism and armed hostilities in the countries in which we do business; • risk of nationalization of steel mills and/or cancellation of our contracts without adequate remedy; • inflation rates in the countries in which we do business; • laws in various international jurisdictions that limit the right and ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met; • risks arising from having our employees and equipment embedded at customer sites, such as risks relating to our ability to access or retrieve our equipment in the event a customer enters into an insolvency proceeding; and • uncertainties arising from local business practices, cultural considerations and international political and trade tensions. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our increasingly global business, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our international expansion strategy may be difficult to implement and may not be successful. Beginning in 2006, we implemented a number of international initiatives to expand our global footprint to countries that we do not serve throughout Europe, Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We cannot assure you that outsourcing will become a prevalent practice in these developing countries or that our initiatives will be successful. If we are able to expand into new international markets, we will further become exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. These include all of the risks and uncertainties that we are currently exposed to in connection with our existing international operations, as well as risks and difficulties inherent in expanding to new jurisdictions, such as establishing new relationships and conducting business in legal and cultural climates with which we have limited or no experience. Furthermore, the success of our international growth strategy depends on our ability to attract key management with business contacts and favorable reputations in our target markets. We will also incur additional costs and expenses in connection with our efforts to execute an international growth strategy, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or successful in expanding our operations into new 21 Table of Contents international markets. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with the expansion of our operations into new international markets, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our business involves a number of personal injury and other operating risks, and our failure to properly manage these risks could result in liabilities and loss of future business not fully covered by insurance, and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Our business activities involve certain operating hazards that can result in personal injury and loss of life, damage and destruction of operating equipment, damage to the surrounding areas, interruption or suspension of operations at a customer site and loss of revenue and future business. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to indemnify our customers against such losses even though we may not be at fault. While we have in place policies to minimize the risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors to our operations, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any such death or injury that may occur in the future, and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we believe that we maintain adequate insurance against these risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims or hazards to which we may be subject or that we will be able to continue to obtain adequate insurance protection. A successful claim for damage resulting from a hazard for which we are not fully insured could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if a customer concluded that we were responsible for an accident at one of our customer sites that resulted in significant losses to them and/or an interruption or suspension of their operations, we could lose such customer’s business. Moreover, such events may adversely affect our reputation in the steel industry, which may make it difficult to renew or extend existing contracts or gain new customers. We are subject to concentrated credit risk and could become subject to constraints on our ability to fund our planned capital investments and/or maintain adequate levels of liquidity and working capital under our senior secured ABL facility as a result of concentrated credit risk, declines in raw material selling prices or declines in steel production volumes. As of December 31, 2012, our largest customer, United States Steel (together with its affiliates), accounted for 26% of our accounts receivable, and our top 10 customers accounted for 67% of our accounts receivable. We are party to multiple long-term contracts with many of our customers, including a number of contracts with United States Steel and its affiliates. Our relative concentration of significant customers, combined with the risk of customer financial difficulties and resulting impacts on us as described above, exposes us to concentrated credit risk or the risk of reduced borrowing capacity under our senior secured ABL facility. Further consolidation among any of the steel industry’s larger companies, many of which are our customers, could further increase the concentration of credit risk we face. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they also may not pay us for work we perform or the products we procure, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. It is possible that customers may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise. Significant customer bankruptcies could further adversely impact our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt. In addition, even when our contracts with these customers are not rejected, if customers are unable to meet their obligations on a timely basis, it could adversely impact our ability to collect receivables, the valuation of inventories and the valuation of long-lived assets of our business, as well as negatively affect the forecasts used in performing our goodwill impairment testing under FASB ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Further, we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extended financing terms with these customers in such a situation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, depressed steel production could weaken demand for raw materials and result in reduced selling prices. While declines in raw material prices tend not to have a significant impact on our Adjusted EBITDA as they would tend to reduce both our revenue and our cost of raw materials roughly equally, declines in raw 22 Table of Contents material prices will cause related declines in our accounts receivable and inventory balances, which form the collateral base for our senior secured ABL facility. While we cannot predict the level of any such further declines in the value of our collateral or the degree to which such declines would decrease availability under our senior secured ABL facility, these events could combine to constrain our ability to fund additional capital investments and maintain adequate levels of liquidity and working capital. If we experience delays between the time we procure raw materials and the time we sell them, we could become subject to constraints on our ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity and working capital. Our global raw materials procurement business is structured such that our purchases of raw materials are typically matched with customer orders, which minimizes inventory and price risk. However, we will from time to time take measured positions in raw materials inventory or experience a delay between the time all or a portion of the raw materials are purchased or sold by us and the time the raw materials are matched to customer purchase or sale orders. As a result, our ability to fund additional capital investments and maintain adequate levels of liquidity and working capital could become constrained and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our estimates of future production volumes may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. We have estimated future production volumes on the basis of our past experience under our existing customer relationships and the length of the terms of our existing contracts. However, such projected volumes may not be realized as revenue or, if realized, may not result in profits. As of December 31, 2012, and based on production volumes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and remaining contract terms, we estimate that our existing multi-year contracts will generate approximately $2.1 billion in future Revenue After Raw Materials Costs. These estimates are based on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on such estimates. Cancellation of contracts or other changes by our customers could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from our contracts. In the event of a cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs, but we typically have limited contractual rights to revenue for services not yet performed. Our customers’ future requirements and our estimates may prove to be unreliable. If our estimates of future production volumes fail to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenue after materials costs and a decline in profitability, which would result in a deterioration of our financial condition, profitability and liquidity. Counterparties to agreements with us may not perform their obligations. We enter into agreements with various counterparties for the procurement of raw materials and provision of services. In the event of non-performance by a counterparty of its obligations under such contracts, we could incur losses as a result of our counterparty’s non-performance or otherwise incur costs in seeking the enforcement of our agreements. For example, a buyer of raw materials from our Raw Material and Optimization Group may seek to avoid its obligations if the cost of raw materials decreases significantly between the time of the order and fulfillment, or a steel mill at which we have a contract to provide services may cease operations and deny us the ability to generate anticipated revenue. We are also subject to the risk that certain counterparties from whom we purchase raw materials from time to time may cease to be a source of supply to us, due to consolidation or other market forces. Exchange rate fluctuations or decreases in exports of steel may materially adversely impact our business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we conduct business may materially adversely impact our operating income and income from continuing operations in any given fiscal period. Our operations in the United States accounted for approximately 70% of our Revenue After Raw Materials Costs and 70% of our Adjusted EBITDA for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012. An 23 Table of Contents increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we earn our revenues generally has a negative impact on operating income, whereas a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar tends to have the opposite effect. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates or decreases in exports of steel, including decreases resulting from the imposition of significant export restrictions, could also have an impact on demand for steel, the volume of global steel production and steel production in North America, as well as affect scrap pricing and procurement costs. If the exchange rates for foreign currencies change materially in relation to the U.S. dollar, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially affected. An increase in our debt service obligations may materially adversely affect our earnings and available cash and could make it more difficult to refinance our existing debt. Our credit facilities include a senior secured ABL facility and a senior secured term loan credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, our gross availability under the senior secured ABL facility was $301.5 million and we had no borrowings outstanding. Also on that date, $16.8 million face amount of letters of credit were issued against our senior secured ABL facility, and approximately $297.8 million was outstanding under our senior secured term loan credit facility. To secure amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, substantially all of the assets of our operating subsidiaries are pledged as security to the lenders. We expect to be able to repay the balance of our indebtedness and meet our other obligations through cash generated from operations. However, we may need to obtain new credit arrangements and other sources of financing in order to meet our future obligations and working capital requirements and to fund our future capital expenditures. Our ability to repay our outstanding debt and to fund our capital expenditures and other obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our ability to refinance our outstanding debt depends not only on our successful financial and operating performance, but also on the availability of funds from credit markets. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms similar to those of our existing facilities. An increase in our debt service obligations could materially adversely affect our earnings. Our debt service obligations could increase as a result of an increase in the amount outstanding under our senior secured ABL facility or by incurring new credit arrangements. Our debt service obligations could also increase as a result of an increase in interest rates. In addition, our senior secured ABL facility contains a consolidated fixed charge coverage covenant pursuant to which our fixed charge coverage ratio is not permitted to be less than 1.0 to 1.0 during any period where our excess availability under this facility is less than $35.0 million. The terms of our credit facilities may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to finance additional growth or take some strategic or operational actions. Our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of the assets of our operating subsidiaries and contain, and any future refinancing or additional debt instruments likely would contain, significant operating and financial restrictions. In addition, the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Among other things, the agreements limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make loans and investments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • incur liens; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions, or repurchase or redeem capital stock or other equity interests; • enter into transactions with affiliates; 24 Table of Contents • sell assets or merge with or into other companies; and • make capital expenditures. In addition, we may from time to time seek to refinance all or a portion of out debt or incur additional debt in the future. Any such future debt or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. If we fail to satisfy our covenants, we will not be able to borrow under our senior secured credit facilities, and the lenders under our credit facilities could accelerate our debt and require immediate payment. We expend significant funds and resources to embed ourselves at our customers’ sites, but we may not receive significant profits for a period of time following such efforts. The development or expansion of our operations at our customer sites may involve a multi-year payback cycle. Depending on the scope of services that we provide, we could expend significant funds and resources in connection with newly-added sites or services before such efforts result in any significant profits. We refer to these funds as Growth Capital Expenditures. We continue to review possible opportunities for establishing operations at new customer sites that will generate additional profits, but those opportunities, particularly with respect to scrap handling, slag processing and surface conditioning also require significant Growth Capital Expenditures. While we typically make the bulk of our Growth Capital Expenditures after we enter into a final binding contract, we may make certain Growth Capital Expenditures during negotiations of the terms of a final binding contract and may not recover the Growth Capital Expenditures or realize any returns if no final contract is entered into. Increases in costs of maintenance and repair of our equipment or increases in energy prices could increase our operating costs and reduce profitability. We incur significant maintenance expenses and Maintenance Capital Expenditures in connection with maintaining, repairing and replacing our mobile heavy equipment, including steel slab carriers, large earth moving front-end loaders/track loaders, pot carriers, pallet carriers, hydraulic/cable cranes, large off-highway trucks, magnetic separating and processing plants, surface conditioning machines and other equipment. These costs vary from year to year, and if such costs were to be higher than anticipated we could be required to incur significant expenses and make significant Maintenance Capital Expenditures, which could have a material adverse affect on our operating income, cash flows and results of operation. In addition, worldwide political and economic conditions and extreme weather conditions, among other factors, may result in an increase in the volatility of energy costs, both on a macro basis and for us specifically. We consume approximately eight to 11 million gallons of diesel fuel annually. To the extent that such costs cannot be passed to customers in the future on a timely basis or at all, whether as a result of contractual price adjustment mechanisms or otherwise, operating income and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Higher than expected claims under our self-insured health plans, under which we retain a portion of the risk, and our large deductible workers’ compensation program could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. We self-insure our employees’ health insurance using a third-party administrator to process and administer claims. We have stop-loss coverage through an insurer that covers claim payments exceeding $175,000 per employee per year subject to a yearly aggregate deductible of $155,000. We maintain accruals for unpaid claims and claims incurred but not reported based on internal analysis of claims experience and actuarial calculations. We also insure our workers’ compensation obligations under our large deductible workers’ compensation program. Under this program, the maximum exposure per claim is $1.0 million and stop-loss coverage is maintained for amounts above this limit. The aggregate maximum exposure is limited to a percentage of payroll 25 Table of Contents for each open policy. We accrue for this expense in amounts that include estimates for incurred but not reported claims, as well as estimates for the ultimate cost of all known claims. We do not have funds on deposit with any third-party insurance company administering self-funded retentions, but we do secure these obligations with letters of credit. At December 31, 2012, we had recorded liabilities of $12.2 million related to both asserted and unasserted health insurance and workers’ compensation claims. If actual claims are higher than those projected by management, an increase to our reserves for health insurance and workers’ compensation claims may be required and would be recorded as a charge to income in the period in which the need for the change was determined. Conversely, if actual claims are lower than those projected by management, a decrease to our insurance reserves may be required and would be recorded as a reduction to expense in the period in which the need for the change was determined. We are exposed to work stoppages and increased labor costs resulting from labor union activity among our employees and those of our customers. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 47% of our North American hourly employees are covered by 29 collective bargaining agreements. Labor agreements with these unions expire periodically through May 2017. Approximately 10% of our North American hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire before December 31, 2013. Our negotiations of new labor agreements with our union employees are time-consuming and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we may not be successful in such negotiations. Each regularly scheduled negotiation of labor agreements may result in increased labor costs. If we are unable to negotiate new terms with our unionized labor successfully as their contracts become due, we could experience a work stoppage, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations or, in the worst case scenario, lead to the termination of contracts with one or more of our significant customers. In addition, many of our customers have employees who are members of trade unions. Because our Service Revenue is primarily derived from steel mill production, a prolonged work stoppage or frequent work stoppages in our customers’ mills could cause a decline in production and a reduction in our revenue, profitability and cash flow. We maintain strike interruption insurance coverage for certain of our sites to help protect us in the event of a labor stoppage by a customer’s union, but such insurance may not cover our losses or our losses may be in excess of our insurance coverage. Our pension and other post-employment benefit plans are currently underfunded or unfunded and we have to make cash payments, which may reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2012, the date the assets and liabilities of our plans were last actuarially computed, our pension plans were underfunded by a total of $8.2 million. We made cash payments of approximately $1.5 million to the underfunded pension plans during the year ended December 31, 2012, consisting primarily of minimum contributions required by ERISA regulations and Canadian governmental authorities. The funded status of the plans may be adversely affected by the investment experience of the plans’ assets in both the United States and Canada, by any changes in the law either in the United States or Canada, and by changes in the statutory interest rates used by “tax-qualified” pension plans in the United States to calculate funding liability. Accordingly, if the performance of our plans’ assets does not meet our expectations, if there are changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service regulations or other applicable law or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future contributions to our underfunded pension plans could be higher than we expect. In addition, we have contractual obligations pursuant to collective bargaining agreements to make payments for employees and could be required to provide additional benefits based on changes in participation in union defined benefit plans. 26 Table of Contents We also have certain post-employment benefit plans that provide health care benefits primarily to retired employees. The plans are not funded; we pay post-employment benefits as required for individual participants. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid $0.3 million of benefits under these plans and as of December 31, 2012, the date the liabilities were last actuarially computed, the plans’ liabilities totaled $5.7 million. If health care costs or other actuarial assumptions differ from our expectations, future benefit payments under these plans could be greater than anticipated. Higher than expected claims that are in excess of the amount of our coverage under insurance policies would increase our costs. While we maintain insurance policies to provide us with protection against a variety of contingencies, including general liability, workers’ compensation, property, automobile and directors’ and officers’ liability, we cannot assure you that the amount of such insurance will be sufficient to cover all liabilities we incur. If actual claims are in excess of the amount of insurance coverage that we have under these insurance policies, we would experience an increase in costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Equipment failure, failure of our computer, information processing, or communications hardware, software, systems or infrastructure, or other events could cause business interruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our steel production support services depend on critical and often specialized pieces of mobile heavy equipment, including steel slab carriers, large earth moving front-end loaders/track loaders, pot carriers, pallet carriers, hydraulic/cable cranes, large off-highway trucks, magnetic separating and processing plants, surface conditioning machines and other equipment. Such equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures, fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. We may also, on occasion, have difficulties obtaining items of equipment from specialized manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms. Due to the embedded nature of our operations, it may be expensive or impractical to relocate our assets and employees in the event of such service interruptions. In addition, unexpected equipment failures by our customers or our customers’ other vendors might result in temporary shutdowns or interruptions in their operations that, in turn, might result in reduction of the services we provide to these customers. We may also encounter business interruptions as a result of weather, blackouts and other catastrophic events. We also rely on various computer systems and software, including purchasing programs and enterprise resource programs, the failure of which to function properly could result in significant disruptions or other losses. Particularly as we grow and expand geographically, our equipment and systems may be costly to upgrade or repair. Because the significant majority of our Service Revenue and Revenue After Raw Materials Costs derives from volume of materials processed, business interruptions can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, any recovery under this insurance coverage may not fully offset the lost Revenue After Raw Materials Costs or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption of operations. In addition to the lost revenue that may not be recoverable through insurance, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, future sales levels, and, therefore, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to acquisition risks. If we are not successful in integrating companies that we acquire or have acquired, we may not achieve the expected benefits and our profitability and cash flow could suffer. In addition, the cost of evaluating and pursuing acquisitions may not result in a corresponding benefit. One of our growth strategies is to pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, both domestically and internationally. Acquisition targets and joint ventures will be evaluated on their strategic fit with our business, their ability to be accretive to earnings and, with respect to international acquisitions, their potential to broaden our global footprint. As part of our international acquisition growth strategy, we acquired Auximetal, a sole-site 27 Table of Contents provider of outsourced mill services to a steel mill outside of Marseille, France, in the first quarter of 2006, and we acquired Hanson Resource Management Limited (“Hanson”), a United Kingdom-based provider of industrial services to steel mills and other industrial enterprises, in the third quarter of 2008. We continue to consider strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, some of which may be larger than those previously completed and could be material to our business. Integrating acquisitions and joint ventures is often costly and may require significant attention from management. Delays or other operational or financial problems that interfere with our operations may result. If we fail to implement proper overall business controls for companies we acquire or fail to successfully integrate these acquired companies and joint ventures in our processes, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, it is possible that we may incur significant expenses in the evaluation and pursuit of potential acquisitions and joint ventures that may not be successfully completed. Other risks inherent in our acquisition and joint ventures strategy include diversion of management’s attention and resources, failure to retain key personnel and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. In addition, in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances exist that indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As a result of changes in circumstances after valuing assets in connection with acquisitions, we may be required to take write-downs of intangible assets, including goodwill, which could be significant. Our business is subject to environmental health and safety regulations that could expose us to liability, increase our cost of operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business and that of our customers and competitors are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation related to the protection of the environment, including requirements concerning the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. We are heavily regulated and closely monitored by environmental agencies because of the high level of environmental risk associated with our operations and the operations of our customers. As a result, we have been involved from time to time in environmental regulatory or judicial proceedings. Certain of our operations may require permits for air emissions, wastewater discharges, or other environmental impacts. These permits may contain terms and conditions that impose limitations on our production levels and associated activities and periodically may be subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. If we are not in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements, or the permits required for our operations, or accidents or releases of hazardous materials occur in connection with our operations, we could be subject to material fines or penalties and, potentially, criminal sanctions, enforcement actions, compliance costs, third party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or interruptions or temporary shut downs of our operations which could have a material adverse effect on us. We could also face the risk of termination under our contracts for the facility where the violation occurred. Although we maintain contractors’ pollution liability insurance, we cannot assure you that the amount of such insurance will be sufficient to cover all liabilities we may incur. Environmental laws regarding clean-up of contamination such as the federal Superfund law, in certain circumstances, impose joint and several liability, for the cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites upon the current site owners, the site owners and operators at the time the contamination occurred, and upon parties who sent waste to the facility for treatment or disposal, regardless of the lawfulness of the activity giving rise to the contamination. Such laws may expose us to liability for conditions caused by others or by our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed, including environmental conditions arising with respect to premises we no longer occupy. We may incur significant liabilities under cleanup laws and regulations in connection with environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our existing, prior, or future sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired. 28 Table of Contents In addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business and the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations, are constantly evolving. Should environmental laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, become more stringent, our costs could increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we generate revenue from the sale of slag as aggregate for use in applications such as cement production, road construction, ballast, fill and agricultural applications. If applicable environmental laws or regulations prohibited the use of slag for these purposes, we could lose all or part of this revenue stream. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws which generally prohibit companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some we may work with, may not be subject to these prohibitions. While we maintain policies that require compliance with these rules, we cannot assure you that our employees, agents or other business partners will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees, agents or other business partners are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may see increased costs arising from health care reform. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. This legislation may have a significant impact on health care providers, insurers and others associated with the health care industry. We are currently evaluating the impact of this comprehensive legislation on our self-insured health plans and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state governments may propose additional health care initiatives and revisions to the health care and health insurance systems. It is uncertain what legislative programs, if any, will be adopted in the future, what action Congress or state legislatures may take regarding other health care reform proposals or legislation, or what the effect any such legislative programs or actions may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the recent global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non-market reasons. Falling steel prices impact our customers’ profitability and financial position. A downgrade in our credit ratings could make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase the cost of raising capital. If one or more of the major ratings agencies were to downgrade the ratings assigned to our outstanding debt, our ability to raise capital would become more difficult, our cost of raising capital would increase, the terms of any future borrowings by us would be affected, the terms under which we purchase goods and services might be affected, and our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities would be impaired. 29 Table of Contents We face significant competition in the markets we serve. The global outsourced steel services industry is highly competitive. Competition is based largely upon service quality, price, past experience, safety and environmental record and reputation. Certain of our competitors are companies or divisions or operating units of large companies that have greater financial and other resources than we do, and a potential customer could view that as an advantage for such a competitor. In order to maintain competitiveness, we may be required to reduce our prices, structure the pricing of our contracts differently or make other concessions. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we also compete with the internal steel production support service capabilities of some of our customers, and, in some cases, customers have replaced our services with internally provided support services. As a result, we may not be able to retain or renew our existing contracts, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to sustain our competitive advantages in the future. We believe that our market advantage is based on our unique ability to provide a combination of leading levels of service, safety, cost-efficiency and technologically advanced products such as our Scrap OptiMiser® and GenBlend® software packages. However, there can be no guarantee that we can maintain our competitive advantage in these areas. Our significant competitors, such as other full-service providers of outsourced industrial services to steel mills and the in-house service capabilities of our customers, have the potential to offer a similar suite of services or improve service levels. From time to time, small, local steel service businesses may receive expansion financing and attempt to compete with us, particularly on the basis of price. In addition, as new methods of scrap optimization are developed or new technologies gain increased market acceptance, we may find ourselves competing with more technologically sophisticated market participants. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among existing and new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Any of the foregoing may make it more difficult for us to compete effectively by reducing our revenues, profit margins and market share. Furthermore, loss of potential customers resulting from our failure to compete effectively may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future conditions might require us to make substantial write-downs in our assets, including requiring us to incur goodwill impairment charges, which would materially adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. Periodically, we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, we review goodwill and other intangibles not subject to amortization for impairment annually, or when events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit could be lower than its carrying value. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We evaluate goodwill annually or if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred. If conditions in our business environment were to deteriorate, we may determine that certain of our assets were impaired, and we would be required to write off all or a portion of our costs for such assets. Any such significant write-offs or other impairment changes in the future could materially adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. We may be subject to potential asbestos-related and other liabilities associated with former businesses. We and our former subsidiaries have been and may in the future be subject to asbestos-related personal injury claims relating to our predecessors, some as old as 100 years, and lines of business that we no longer own or operate, including liability related to subsidiaries that we have sold or spun off. Although we have various 30 Table of Contents indemnities, contractual protections, insurance coverage and legal defenses with respect to asbestos-related claims related to our predecessors and former lines of business, we may incur material liability in connection with such claims if the indemnities and contractual protections fail, if our insurance coverage is exhausted or if a court does not recognize our legal defenses. The discovery of material liabilities relating to predecessors or former lines of business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or future prospects. Certain of our operations are dependent on access to freight transportation. We rely on freight transportation to perform certain aspects of our business, and we could be unfavorably impacted by factors affecting transportation, including, but not limited to, the following: • Our inability to transport material on commercially reasonable terms if the preferred modes of transportation (i.e., barges, vessels, trucks, rail cars, etc.) are unavailable or uneconomical; and • We may incur demurrage or similar charges, which could be substantial in the event of a delay in loading cargo when scheduled. If we did not have access to freight transportation on reasonable terms, our ability to operate our business could be materially adversely affected. Our tax liabilities may substantially increase if the tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate change or become subject to adverse interpretations or inconsistent enforcement. Taxes payable by companies in many of the countries in which we operate are substantial and include value added tax, excise duties, taxes on income (including profits and capital gains), payroll-related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. Tax laws and regulations in some of these jurisdictions may be subject to frequent change, varying interpretation and inconsistent enforcement. In addition, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted transfer pricing legislation. If tax authorities impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate will introduce additional revenue raising measures. The introduction of any such provisions may affect our overall tax efficiency and could result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. Any such additional tax exposure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may face a significant increase in income taxes if tax rates increase or the tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or treaties between those jurisdictions are modified in an adverse manner. This may materially adversely affect our cash flows, liquidity and ability to pay dividends. Increased use of materials other than steel may have a material adverse effect on our business. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Increased use of these materials in substitution for steel products could have a material adverse effect on prices and demand for our customers’ products. For example, U.S. Congress has raised the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) mileage requirements for new cars and light trucks produced beginning in 2011. Automobile producers may reduce the steel content of cars and trucks to reduce their weight and help achieve the new Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, reducing demand for steel or resulting in an over-supply in the United States. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may materially adversely affect our operations and markets. A number of governmental authorities and international bodies have introduced, implemented or are contemplating legislation or regulation in response to the potential impacts of greenhouse gas emissions or climate change. These legislations and regulations have, and may in the future, result in increasing regulation of 31 Table of Contents greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms, in jurisdictions in which we operate. These initiatives may result in increased future energy and compliance costs. These initiatives may be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. The additional costs to our suppliers could be passed along to us in the form of higher cost products and services and our customers could be forced to reduce or cease production at certain customer sites if regulatory costs made such operations uneconomic. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. In addition, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These effects may materially adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights adequately or infringe the intellectual property of others, our business could be materially adversely affected. We seek to protect our intellectual property through trade secrets, confidentiality, non-compete and nondisclosure agreements and other measures, some of which afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology or to obtain and use information that is proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or superior technology or design around our intellectual property. Our failure to protect adequately our intellectual property and proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others or be subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Regardless of merits, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate and settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantive monetary damages or discontinue any of our products, services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party’s rights. We also may have to seek a license and make royalty payments to continue offering our products and services or following such practices, which may significantly increase our operating expense. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 