ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent on New Sun until we substantially diversify our portfolio, and an event that has a material adverse effect on New Sun’s business, financial position or results of operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Subsidiaries of New Sun are currently the lessees of all of our properties (with New Sun guaranteeing the obligations under the Lease Agreements) and, therefore, the sole source of our revenues. There can be no assurance that New Sun and its subsidiaries will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment obligations under the Lease Agreements. The inability of New Sun and its subsidiaries to meet their rent obligations would materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders as required to maintain our status as a REIT. The inability of New Sun and its subsidiaries to satisfy their other obligations under the Lease Agreements such as the payment of taxes, insurance and utilities could have a material adverse effect on the condition of the leased properties as well as on our business, financial position and results of operations. For these reasons, if New Sun were to experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations, our business, financial position or results of operations would also be materially adversely affected. Due to our dependence on rental payments from New Sun and its subsidiaries as our primary source of revenues, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under the Lease Agreements or to terminate a lease thereunder. Failure by New Sun and its subsidiaries to comply with the terms of the Lease Agreements or to comply with the healthcare regulations to which the leased properties and New Sun’s operations are subject could require us to find other lessees for any affected leased properties and there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments by New Sun and its subsidiaries. In such event, we may be unable to locate suitable replacement lessees willing to pay similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues. Our pro forma financial information included herein does not purport to be indicative of what our results would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of future results. Our pro forma financial information included herein may not reflect what our business, financial position or results of operations would have been had we been a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented, or what our business, financial position or results of operations will be now that we are a separate, publicly traded, independently managed company. We believe that any such differences would be primarily attributable to the following factors, among others: • Prior to the Separation and REIT Conversion Merger, our assets and New Sun’s businesses were operated by Old Sun as part of one integrated corporate organization and were not operated as stand-alone companies; • As part of the Separation and REIT Conversion Merger, we and New Sun entered into transactions with each other that had not existed historically; and • Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a stand-alone company. These changes may result in increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, stand-alone costs for services currently provided and the legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company. 15 Table of Contents The pro forma financial information included herein includes adjustments based upon available information believed as of the date hereof to be reasonable to reflect these known and anticipated factors. However, the assumptions we have employed for this purpose may change and actual results may differ. The continued volatility in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, refinance existing obligations or acquire healthcare properties, each of which may materially adversely impact our business, financial position or results of operations. The global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. In order to achieve our growth and diversification objectives, we will need to raise additional debt capital and equity capital. The continuation of volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do so. The capital markets have experienced and may continue to experience significant events, including extreme pricing volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which may contribute further to downward pressure on securities prices, widening credit spreads on prospective debt financing and declines in the market values of U.S. and foreign stock exchanges. The sustainability of a prolonged economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature. We have substantial indebtedness and the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, our indebtedness consisted of $225.0 million of 8.125% senior notes due 2018 (the “Senior Notes”) and aggregate mortgage indebtedness to third parties of $160.9 million on certain of our properties. In addition, we have $87.6 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility (given the borrowing base requirements of that facility). Our high level of indebtedness may have the following important consequences to us: • It may become more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations (including ongoing interest payments and, where applicable, scheduled amortization payments) with respect to the Senior Notes and our other debt; • It may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; • It may increase our cost of borrowing; • We may need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby limiting our ability to invest in our business; • It may limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and we may be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare sectors; • It may place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and • It may require us to sell assets and properties at an inopportune time. In addition, the indenture governing the Senior Notes permits us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt (to which the Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated). If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations 16 Table of Contents or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under our senior secured revolving credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In particular, our senior secured revolving credit facility will mature prior to the maturity of the Senior Notes. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our activities and could adversely affect our business. Our debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including: • Incurring additional secured and unsecured debt; • Paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock; • Making investments or other restricted payments; • Entering into transactions with affiliates; • Issuing stock of or interests in restricted subsidiaries; • Engaging in non-healthcare related business activities; • Creating restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us; • Selling assets; or • Effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial covenants, which include a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum tangible net worth ratio, as well as satisfy other financial condition tests. The indenture governing the Senior Notes requires us to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. Our senior secured revolving credit facility also allows for the lenders thereunder to conduct periodic appraisals of our owned properties that secure such facility, and if the appraised values were to decline in the future, the amount that can be borrowed under such facility would be decreased unless we pledge additional assets as collateral. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. 17 Table of Contents An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for our existing debt and any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the access third parties have to credit, thereby decreasing the amount they are willing to pay for our assets, and consequently limit our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional healthcare properties, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or the incurrence of significant costs and we may not be able to fully realize the potential benefit of such transactions. We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional healthcare properties. Accordingly, we may often be engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we may engage in discussions that may result in one or more transactions. There is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction. We may, however, devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities whether or not the contemplated transactions are completed. Integrating any properties we acquire into our overall portfolio and business strategy may cost more than expected. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, there can be no assurance that the potential benefit of any such transaction will be fully realized. The fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income annually in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further acquisitions might be limited or curtailed. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties. Our tenants are operators of skilled nursing and other healthcare facilities, which operators must be licensed under applicable state law and, depending upon the type of facility, certified or approved as providers under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Prior to the transfer of the operations of such healthcare properties to successor operators, the new operator generally must become licensed under state law and, in certain states, receive change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws (which laws provide for a certification that the state has made a determination that a need exists for the beds located on the applicable property). If applicable, Medicare and Medicaid provider approvals may be needed as well. In the event that an existing lease is terminated or expires and a new tenant is found, then any delays in the new tenant receiving regulatory approvals from the applicable federal, state or local government agencies, or the inability of such tenant to receive such approvals, may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. We are dependent on the healthcare industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with healthcare reform, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. Together, these two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system undertaken since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. These new laws include a large number of health-related provisions that are scheduled to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, 18 Table of Contents establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Because all of our properties are used as healthcare properties, we are impacted by the risks associated with the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform. While the expansion of healthcare coverage may result in some additional demand for services provided by New Sun and other tenants, reimbursement levels may be lower than the costs required to provide such services, which could materially adversely affect the ability of New Sun and other tenants to generate profits and pay rent under their lease agreements with us and thereby could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some and potentially substantially all of our properties serve as collateral for our current and future secured debt obligations and cannot readily be sold unless the underlying mortgage indebtedness is concurrently repaid. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. A downturn in the real estate market could materially adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for acceptable prices or on other acceptable terms. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. Further, because Sabra owns appreciated assets that were held before Sabra elected to be treated as a REIT, if Sabra sells any such property in a taxable transaction within the ten-year period following Sabra’s qualification as a REIT, Sabra will generally be subject to corporate tax on that gain to the extent of the built-in gain in that property at the time Sabra became a REIT. The amount of corporate tax that Sabra would pay will vary depending on the actual amount of net built-in gain or loss present in those assets as of the time Sabra became a REIT. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult for us to identify and purchase suitable healthcare properties. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger than us and have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition makes it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Mr. Matros, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of Mr. Matros, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We have a limited number of employees and, accordingly, the loss of any one of our employees could harm our operations. As of December 31, 2010, we employed six full-time employees, including our executive officers. Accordingly, the impact we may feel from the loss of one of our full-time employees may be greater than the impact such a loss would have on a larger organization. While it is anticipated that we could find replacements for our personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations, at least in the short term. 19 Table of Contents We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expenses. While the Lease Agreements require, and any new lease agreements are expected to require, that comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance be maintained by the tenants, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace properties after they have been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to a damaged property. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. As an owner of real property, we or our subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Although we do not operate or manage our properties, we or our subsidiaries may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property where there has been a release or threatened release of a hazardous regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed an affected property’s value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws provide for the creation of a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government as security for damages and any costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination and associated clean-up. Although we require New Sun, and intend to require our future operators and tenants, to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. The Separation and REIT Conversion Merger could give rise to disputes between us and New Sun, which could have a material adverse effect on our or New Sun’s business, financial position or results of operations. Disputes between us and New Sun could arise in connection with any of the following agreements entered into between us and New Sun in connection with the Separation and REIT Conversion Merger: (i) a distribution agreement, providing for certain organizational matters, the mechanics related to the Separation and REIT Conversion Merger as well as other ongoing obligations of New Sun and us (the “Distribution Agreement”), (ii) the Lease Agreements, (iii) an agreement relating to tax allocation matters (the “Tax Allocation Agreement”) and (iv) an agreement between us and New Sun under which New Sun is obligated to provide certain services to us on a transitional basis (the “Transition Services Agreement”). We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in agreements entered into in connection with the Separation. The agreements entered into in connection with the Separation, including the Distribution Agreement, the Lease Agreements, the Tax Allocation Agreement and the Transition Services Agreement, were negotiated in the context of New Sun’s separation from Old Sun while New Sun was still a part of Old Sun. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that may have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Some of the terms of the agreements negotiated in the context of the Separation provided for the initial cash position of each company, the initial indebtedness incurred by each company and the allocation of liabilities, rights and indemnification and other obligations between the companies. We may have received better terms under similar agreements from third parties. 20 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or could cause us to delay the filing of required reports with the SEC and our reporting of financial results. Any of these events could result in a decline in the price of shares of our common stock. If we and New Sun are treated by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) as being under common control, both we and New Sun could experience adverse tax consequences. If we and New Sun are treated by the IRS as being under common control, the IRS will be authorized to reallocate income and deductions between us and New Sun to reflect arm’s length terms. Were the IRS successfully to establish that rents paid by New Sun to us are excessive, (a) New Sun would be denied a deduction for the excessive portion and (b) New Sun would be subject to a penalty on the portion deemed excessive, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial position or results of operations of New Sun. In addition, New Sun stockholders would be deemed to have received a distribution that was then contributed to our capital. To the extent that rents were insufficient, we (i) would be subject to a penalty on the portion deemed insufficient and (ii) would be deemed to have made a distribution to our stockholders equal to the insufficiency, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Also, if we and New Sun are treated by the IRS as being under common control, rents received from New Sun may not be considered qualifying rental revenue for purposes of meeting the gross income tests which are required for us to qualify for and maintain our status as a REIT. An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses could inhibit a change of control of Sabra or reduce the value of our stock. Certain provisions of Maryland law and of our charter and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect. The following provisions of Maryland law and these governing documents could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Sabra, including certain acquisitions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests: • Our charter contains transfer and ownership restrictions on the percentage by number and value of outstanding shares of our stock that may be owned or acquired by any stockholder; • Our charter permits the issuance of one or more classes or series of preferred stock with rights and preferences to be determined by the board of directors and permits our board of directors, without stockholder action, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue; • “Business combination” provisions of Maryland law, subject to certain limitations, impose a moratorium on business combinations with “interested stockholders” or affiliates thereof for five years and thereafter impose additional requirements on such business combinations; • Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations; and • Our bylaws may be amended only by our board of directors. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STATUS AS A REIT Our failure to qualify or loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us. Although we are organized to qualify as a REIT and intend to elect to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year beginning on January 1, 2011, we may be unable or fail 21 Table of Contents to qualify for and maintain REIT status. If we fail to qualify for or lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations for each of the years involved because: • We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • We would be subject to (i) federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with respect to each such year for which the statute of limitations remains open and (ii) possibly increased state and local taxes; and • Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. This treatment would significantly reduce our net earnings and cash flow because of our additional tax liability for the years involved, which could significantly impact our financial condition. As a result of all of these factors, our failure to qualify or maintain our status as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy, raise capital, satisfy our obligations and pay dividends. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a seemingly minor technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize REIT status. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as and remain qualified as a REIT. For example, in order for us to qualify or maintain our status as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. Moreover, the Separation and REIT Conversion Merger may complicate REIT compliance, including the requirement that any earnings and profits accumulated before our qualification as a REIT be distributed by the end of the taxable year with respect to which our REIT election is made. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. While we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we may not so qualify for any particular taxable year. Even if we elect to be taxed as a REIT and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we elect to be taxed as a REIT and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal or state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for the payment of our debt obligations. In addition, we may use taxable REIT subsidiaries to undertake indirectly activities that the REIT rules might otherwise preclude it from doing directly or through pass-through subsidiaries. Such taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions. To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, Sabra must make distributions to its stockholders. While the indenture governing the Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility permit us to declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution that is necessary to maintain our REIT status, those distributions are subject to certain financial tests under the indenture and therefore the amount of cash distributions we can make to our stockholders may be limited. Sabra is required 22 Table of Contents under the Code to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, and the Operating Partnership is required to make distributions to Sabra to allow it to satisfy these REIT distribution requirements. However, distributions may limit Sabra’s ability to rely upon rental payments from its properties or subsequently acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments. Although Sabra anticipates that it generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable Sabra to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, Sabra may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause Sabra to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable Sabra to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that such an insufficiency or such timing differences occur, in order to meet the 90% distribution requirement and maintain Sabra’s status as a REIT, Sabra may have to sell assets at unfavorable prices, borrow at unfavorable terms, make taxable stock dividends, or pursue other strategies. This may require Sabra to raise additional capital to meet its obligations. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility and the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 