Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our ability to generate revenues from any approved products will be subject to attaining significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers. DUEXIS, LODOTRA, known as RAYOS in the U.S., and our other product candidates, if approved, may not attain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. In December 2011, we began selling DUEXIS in the U.S. market and LODOTRA has only been sold in a limited number of European countries. Sales of DUEXIS and LODOTRA in these markets have been limited to date and sales may not grow to expected levels, in part because we depend on our distribution partner, Mundipharma International Corporation Limited, or Mundipharma, for the commercialization of LODOTRA in these markets. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from any products for which we obtain marketing approval will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of our products as well as competitive drugs; • efficacy and safety of our products; • continued projected growth of the arthritis, pain and inflammation markets; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • acceptance by patients, primary care specialists and key specialists, including rheumatologists, orthopedic surgeons and pain specialists; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages of our products over alternative treatments, including cost of treatment and relative convenience and ease of administration; • strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; • the price of our products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • the effect of current and future healthcare laws; • availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing from government and other third-party payers; and • product labeling or product insert requirements of the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities. With respect to DUEXIS, studies indicate that physicians do not commonly co-prescribe GI protective agents to high-risk patients taking NSAIDs. We believe this is due in part to a lack of awareness among physicians prescribing NSAIDs of the risk of NSAID-induced upper GI ulcers, in addition to the inconvenience of prescribing two separate medications and patient compliance issues associated with multiple prescriptions. If physicians remain unaware of, or do not otherwise believe in, the benefits of combining GI protective agents with NSAIDs, our market opportunity for DUEXIS will be limited. Some physicians may also be reluctant to prescribe DUEXIS due to the inability to vary the dose of ibuprofen or if they believe treatment with NSAIDs or GI protectants other than ibuprofen and famotidine, including those of our competitors, would be more effective for their patients. With respect to both DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS, their higher cost compared to the generic forms of their active ingredients alone may limit adoption by physicians, patients and healthcare payers. If DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or our other product candidates that are approved fail to attain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 32 Table of Contents Our current business plan is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully execute on our sales and marketing strategy for the commercialization of DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS. If we are unable to successfully execute on our sales and marketing strategy, we may not be able to generate significant product revenues or execute on our business plan. Our strategy is to build a fully-integrated U.S.-focused biopharmaceutical company to successfully execute the commercial launches of DUEXIS and, if approved by the FDA, RAYOS in the U.S. market. We may not be able to successfully commercialize either DUEXIS or, if approved, RAYOS in the U.S. Prior to initial detailing in December 2011 and our commercial launch of DUEXIS in the U.S. in December 2011, we did not have any experience commercializing pharmaceutical products on our own. LODOTRA was commercially launched in Europe by our exclusive distribution partners Merck Serono and Mundipharma. In order to commercialize any approved products, we must continue to build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities. We currently have limited resources and the continued development of our own commercial organization to market these products and any additional products we may develop will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capability. We will also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. We also face competition in our search for potential co-promoters of our products. To the extent we rely on additional third parties to commercialize any approved products, we may receive less revenues than if we commercialized these products ourselves. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. In the event we are unable to successfully develop our own commercial organization or collaborate with a third-party sales and marketing organization or enter into co-promotion agreements, we would not be able to commercialize our product candidates and execute on our business plan. If we are unable to successfully implement our commercial plans and drive adoption by patients and physicians of any approved products through our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts, or if our partners fail to successfully commercialize our products, then we will not be able to generate sustainable revenues from product sales which will have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We are highly dependent on the success of DUEXIS and LODOTRA, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these products or successfully obtain additional marketing approvals for DUEXIS in Europe or LODOTRA in the U.S. To date, we have expended significant time, resources and effort on the development of DUEXIS and RAYOS, and a substantial majority of our resources are now focused on the commercialization of DUEXIS in the U.S. and seeking additional marketing approvals for DUEXIS and RAYOS. Our ability to generate significant product revenues in the near term will depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully commercialize DUEXIS and RAYOS in the U.S., obtain European marketing approval for DUEXIS and obtain U.S. marketing approval for RAYOS. DUEXIS is not approved for marketing in any jurisdiction outside of the U.S. and therefore, unless it obtains regulatory approval in other countries it may never be commercialized outside of the U.S. Although LODOTRA is approved for marketing in 16 European countries, to date it has only been marketed in a limited number of European countries. While we anticipate that LODOTRA will be marketed in additional European countries as our distribution partner, Mundipharma, formulates its reimbursement strategy, the ability to market LODOTRA in additional European countries will depend on Mundipharma’s ability to obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in these countries. Even if we obtain additional marketing and reimbursement approvals, our product revenues in Europe are entirely dependent upon the marketing efforts of our exclusive distribution partner, over which we have no control. RAYOS is not approved for marketing in the U.S., which we believe represents its largest commercial opportunity. Before we can market and sell these products in a particular jurisdiction, we will need to obtain necessary regulatory approvals (from the FDA in the U.S. and from similar foreign regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions) and in some jurisdictions, reimbursement authorization. There are no guarantees that we will obtain any additional regulatory approvals for our products. Even if we obtain additional regulatory approvals, we may never generate significant revenues from any commercial sales of our products. If we fail to successfully commercialize DUEXIS or RAYOS, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial 33 Table of Contents condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We recently entered into a senior secured loan facility that includes certain performance covenants, including minimum trailing twelve month revenue covenants at each quarter end. Should we not meet these quarterly minimum revenue covenants, in addition to an increase in the interest rate payable under the loan facility, the lenders have the right to demand repayment of the obligations under the loan. While we believe, based on our current estimates that we will meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants under the loan facility, there can be no assurance that we will. We also cannot predict whether the lenders would demand repayment of the outstanding balance of the loan if we were unable to meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants. The inability to meet the covenants under the loan facility could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our products and product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, and we may not obtain additional regulatory approvals for DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution and other possible activities relating to our product candidates are, and any resulting drugs will be, subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Failure to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. We are not permitted to market RAYOS or any of our other product candidates in the U.S. until we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA. To market a new drug in the U.S., we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of a new drug application, or NDA. To market a new drug in Europe, we must submit to the applicable regulatory authority in the designated Reference Member State and obtain approval of, a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA. An NDA or MAA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable product candidate. Regulatory approval of an NDA or an MAA is not guaranteed. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for NDA or MAA approval varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or the condition that the product candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Despite the time and expense associated with preclinical and clinical studies, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies, CMC studies or clinical trials. The FDA and similar foreign authorities could delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including because they: • may not deem a product candidate to be adequately safe and effective; • may not find the data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials to be sufficient to support a claim of safety and efficacy; • may interpret data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials significantly differently than we do; • may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities associated with our product candidates; • may conclude that we have not sufficiently demonstrated long-term stability of the formulation for which we are seeking marketing approval; • may change approval policies (including with respect to our product candidates’ class of drugs) or adopt new regulations; or • may not accept a submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. As part of the U.S. Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has a goal to review and act on a percentage of all submissions in a given time frame. The general review goal for a drug application is 10 months for a standard application and six 34 Table of Contents months for a priority review application. The FDA’s review goals are subject to change, and it is unknown whether the review of an NDA filing for any of our product candidates will be completed within the FDA’s review goals or will be delayed. Moreover, the duration of the FDA’s review may depend on the number and types of other NDAs that are submitted to the FDA around the same time period. Generally, public concern regarding the safety of drug products could delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval, result in the inclusion of unfavorable information in our labeling, or require us to undertake other activities that may entail additional costs. In October 2010, we submitted an MAA for DUEXIS in the United Kingdom, or UK, the Reference Member State, through the Decentralized Procedure. In February 2012, we modified the DUEXIS MAA submission to include the recently approved manufacturing site in Laval, Quebec (previously owned and operated by sanofi-aventis U.S.) through the National Procedure in the UK, which is used as the primary site to manufacture DUEXIS for the U.S. market. In connection with our MAA for DUEXIS, and consistent with an identical request we made in our NDA for DUEXIS, we are requesting the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK to approve a formulation that is different from the formulation used in our Phase 3 clinical trials, which we determined had inadequate stability characteristics to be suitable for commercialization. As a result, we were required to demonstrate the bioequivalence of famotidine between the new and old formulations in addition to the other NDA and MAA requirements. We successfully completed this bioequivalence study prior to submitting the NDA and MAA for DUEXIS. We also demonstrated the bioequivalence of ibuprofen between the two formulations of DUEXIS and the reference labeled drug ibuprofen as part of the NDA and MAA submissions. We continue to complete CMC studies with the new formulation, and we cannot be sure that we will not have additional formulation issues related to DUEXIS or any of our other product candidates. The statutory review period for an MAA is 210 days from the date of submission, excluding any periods when the review period is stopped, but there are no guarantees that a decision on our MAA filing will take place on our anticipated timeline, if at all. We submitted the NDA for RAYOS to the FDA on September 26, 2011, but with the exception of our approved DUEXIS NDA, we have never obtained FDA approval for any drug. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for RAYOS or our other product candidates. Even if we believe that data collected from our preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials of our product candidates are promising and that our information and procedures regarding CMC are sufficient, our data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory authority, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. In addition, the FDA’s regulatory review of NDAs for product candidates intended for widespread use by a large proportion of the general population is becoming increasingly focused on safety. Even if approved, product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations. Our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of our product candidates. We cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop. To market any drugs outside of the U.S., we and current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods, including obtaining reimbursement approval in select markets. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as additional, presently unanticipated, risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others, including the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. While we anticipate that LODOTRA will be marketed in additional European Union countries as Mundipharma formulates its reimbursement strategy, the ability to market LODOTRA in additional European Union countries will depend on Mundipharma’s ability to obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in these countries. 35 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of any investment in our common stock. We were incorporated as Horizon Pharma, Inc. on March 23, 2010. On April 1, 2010, we effected a recapitalization and acquisition pursuant to which we became a holding company that operates through our two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. (formerly known as Horizon Therapeutics, Inc.) and Horizon Pharma AG (formerly known as Nitec Pharma AG, or Nitec). Horizon Pharma USA began its operations in 2005 and Nitec began its operations in 2004. We face considerable risks and difficulties as a holding company with limited operating history, particularly as a consolidated entity with operating subsidiaries that also have limited operating histories. If we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely harmed. Our limited operating history makes it particularly difficult for us to predict our future operating results and appropriately budget for our expenses. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially affected. For example, we recently entered into a senior secured loan facility that includes certain performance covenants, including minimum trailing twelve month revenue covenants at each quarter end. Should we not meet these quarterly minimum revenue covenants, in addition to an increase in the interest rate payable under the loan facility, the lenders have the right to demand repayment of the obligations under the loan. While we believe, based on our current estimates that we will meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants under the loan facility, there can be no assurance that we will. We also cannot predict whether the lenders would demand repayment of the outstanding balance of the loan if we were unable to meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants. The inability to meet the covenants under the loan facility could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, we have only two products approved for commercial sale. LODOTRA has only been approved in select countries within Europe, and we have a limited history of marketing LODOTRA through our distribution partners. DUEXIS was approved in the U.S. on April 23, 2011 and we have only recently increased our commercialization activities to enable us to market DUEXIS, and we have generated limited revenues for DUEXIS to date. This limited history of commercial sales also makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of any investment in our common stock. We have limited experience as a consolidated operating entity, particularly with commercialization activities, and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology areas. We may not realize the benefits we expected from our recapitalization and acquisition of Nitec. In April 2010, we completed our recapitalization and acquisition of Nitec pursuant to which Horizon Pharma USA and Horizon Pharma AG became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. The integration of the businesses of our subsidiaries continues to be complex, time-consuming and expensive and may cause disruptions in the combined business. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize any benefits or synergies from the acquisition of Nitec. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of tasks, including the following: • managing the regulatory and reimbursement approval processes, intellectual property protection strategies and commercialization activities of the companies, including compliance with the laws of a number of different jurisdictions; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems, including with respect to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting; • managing international operations; and • meeting the challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. 36 Table of Contents Many of these challenges are exacerbated by the fact that Horizon Pharma USA is a U.S.-based company and Horizon Pharma AG is a company based in Switzerland, with most of its European operations occurring through its subsidiary, Horizon Pharma GmbH, in Germany. We may encounter difficulties successfully managing a substantially larger and internationally diverse organization and may encounter significant delays in achieving successful management of our organization. Integration of our subsidiaries’ operations has involved considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include the following: • the potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of our management; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • our inability to manage the research and development, regulatory and reimbursement approval, both in the U.S. and in Europe, and commercialization activities of our subsidiaries; and • the impairment of relationships with employees and suppliers as a result of any integration of new management personnel or other activities. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of our subsidiaries’ businesses. The inability to integrate successfully the operations, technology and personnel of our businesses, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects, and on the market price of our common stock. We have experienced recent growth and expect to continue to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 41 full-time employees as a consolidated entity. In anticipation of the commercial launch of DUEXIS, we hired 80 sales representatives during the period from September 2011 through October 2011. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this recent growth, and we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified personnel in the future due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses. As of December 31, 2011, we employed 164 full-time employees as a consolidated entity. We expect this growth to continue in the near term. As our commercialization plans and strategies develop, and as we continue our transition into operating as a public company, we will need to continue recruiting and training sales and marketing personnel and expect to need to expand the size of our employee base for managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our ability to manage our planned growth effectively will require us to do, among other things, the following: • manage the NDA review process for RAYOS and the MAA review process for DUEXIS; • build an appropriate commercial organization and manage the sales and marketing efforts for DUEXIS and RAYOS, subject to receipt of applicable regulatory approvals; • enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; • expand our international resources; • successfully identify, recruit, hire, train, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees; • establish and increase our access to commercial supplies of our products and product candidates; • expand our facilities and equipment; and • manage our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors, collaborators, distributors and other third parties. Our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities and towards managing these growth activities. Our future financial performance and our ability to 37 Table of Contents execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and our failure to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to effectively train and equip our sales force, our ability to successfully commercialize DUEXIS in the U.S. will be harmed. As DUEXIS is a newly approved drug, none of the members of our sales force has ever promoted DUEXIS. As a result, we are required to expend significant time and resources to train our sales force to be credible and persuasive in convincing physicians to prescribe and pharmacists to dispense DUEXIS. In addition, we must train our sales force to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about DUEXIS is being delivered to our potential customers. If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits of DUEXIS and its proper administration, our efforts to successfully commercialize DUEXIS could be put in jeopardy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including those marketing generic products, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and international markets, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff, experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or in-licensing on an exclusive basis products that are more effective and/or less costly than DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS or any product candidates that we are currently developing or that we may develop. DUEXIS faces competition from Celebrex®, marketed by Pfizer Inc., Vimovo®, marketed by AstraZeneca AB and Arthrotec®, marketed by Pfizer. In addition, DUEXIS faces significant competition from the separate use of NSAIDs for pain relief and GI protective medications to reduce the risk of NSAID-induced upper GI ulcers. Both NSAIDs and GI protective medications are available in generic form and may be less expensive to use separately than DUEXIS. In addition, other product candidates that contain ibuprofen and famotidine in combination, while not currently known to us, may be developed and compete with DUEXIS in the future. On February 15, 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Patent Certification from Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par, advising that Par has filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA for a generic version of DUEXIS, containing 800 mg of ibuprofen and 26.6 mg of famotidine. Par has not advised us as to the timing or status of the FDA’s review of its filing, or whether it has complied with FDA requirements for proving bioequivalence. We are evaluating the Paragraph IV certification and intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to DUEXIS, but we cannot predict the outcome of this matter. We expect LODOTRA/RAYOS will compete with a number of pharmaceuticals on the market to treat rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, including corticosteriods, such as prednisone, disease modifying antirheumatic drugs, or DMARDs, such as methotrexate, and biologic agents such as HUMIRA®, marketed by Abbott, and Enbrel®, marketed by Amgen Inc. and Pfizer. It is typical for an RA patient to take a combination of a DMARD, an oral glucocorticoid, an NSAID and/or a biologic agent. Therefore, we expect that LODOTRA/RAYOS’s principal competition will be prednisone, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in LODOTRA/RAYOS, or other oral corticosteriods, which, while they may be suboptimal, are or are expected to be less expensive than 38 Table of Contents LODOTRA/RAYOS. In addition, other product candidates that contain prednisone or other oral corticosteriods in alternative delayed release forms, while not currently known to us, may be developed and compete with LODOTRA in the future. The availability and price of our competitors’ products could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS. We will not successfully execute on our business objectives if the market acceptance of DUEXIS or LODOTRA is inhibited by price competition, if physicians are reluctant to switch from existing products to DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS, or if physicians switch to other new products or choose to reserve DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS for use in limited patient populations. In addition, established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license and develop novel compounds that could make our products obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully with these companies and other potential competitors will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: • discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; • attract qualified scientific, product development and sales and marketing personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new product candidates. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to be approved and overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, obtaining FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. The inability to compete with existing products or subsequently introduced products would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects. A variety of risks associated with operating our business and marketing our products internationally could materially adversely affect our business. In addition to our U.S. operations, we have operations in Switzerland and Germany. Moreover, LODOTRA is currently being marketed in a limited number of European countries, and Mundipharma is in the process of obtaining pricing and reimbursement approval for, and preparing to market, LODOTRA in other European countries. We face risks associated with our international operations, including possible unfavorable regulatory, pricing and reimbursement, political, tax and labor conditions, which could harm our business. We are subject to numerous risks associated with international business activities, including: • compliance with differing or unexpected regulatory requirements for our products; • compliance with Swiss laws with respect to our Horizon Pharma AG subsidiary, including laws requiring maintenance of cash in the subsidiary to avoid overindebtedness, which requires Horizon Pharma AG to maintain assets in excess of its liabilities; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • in certain circumstances, including with respect to the commercialization of LODOTRA in Europe, increased dependence on the commercialization efforts of our distributors or strategic partners; • compliance with German laws with respect to our Horizon Pharma GmbH subsidiary through which Horizon Pharma AG conducts most of its European operations; • foreign government taxes, regulations and permit requirements; 39 Table of Contents • U.S. and foreign government tariffs, trade restrictions, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, natural disasters, war, events of terrorism or political instability in particular foreign countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations related to doing business in another country; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulations and restrictions for employees living or traveling abroad; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • challenges in enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, sales and marketing and scientific and medical personnel, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy P. Walbert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert J. De Vaere, our Executive Vice President, Development, Regulatory Affairs, Manufacturing and Chief Medical Officer, Jeffrey W. Sherman, M.D., our Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Business Development, Todd Smith and our Senior Vice President, Managed Care and Commercial Development, Michael Adatto. In order to retain valuable employees at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide incentive stock options that vest over time. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Our scientific team in particular has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery, development and commercialization, and may be difficult to retain or replace. We conduct our operations at our facilities in Deerfield, Illinois, Reinach, Switzerland and Mannheim, Germany and may face challenges recruiting personnel to these geographic locales. Moreover, these regions are headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions and therefore we face increased competition for personnel in those geographies. Competition for skilled personnel in our markets is very intense and competition for experienced scientists may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, sales and marketing and scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have written employment arrangements with all of our employees, these employment arrangements generally provide for at-will employment, which means that our employees can leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, financial condition and prospects. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our 40 Table of Contents success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior sales and marketing and scientific and medical personnel. Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with whom we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and longer histories in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than that which we have to offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can develop and commercialize products and product candidates will be limited. If we fail to obtain and maintain approval from regulatory authorities in international markets for DUEXIS and LODOTRA and any future product candidates for which we have rights in international markets, our market opportunities will be limited and our business will be adversely impacted. Sales of our products and product candidates outside of the U.S. will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S., including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. In many countries outside the U.S., a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. We are, with respect to DUEXIS, and will be, with respect to any other product candidate for which we obtain FDA approval, subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, RAYOS and any other product candidate, if approved by the FDA, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any regulatory approvals that we obtain for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA approves a product candidate, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, good clinical practices, or GCPs, international conference on harmonization regulations, or ICH, and good laboratory practices, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our products in clinical development, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. For example, as post-marketing requirements for DUEXIS, we are required by the FDA to develop a pediatric suspension formulation for DUEXIS and conduct three pharmacokinetic studies of the drug product in pediatric populations. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; 41 Table of Contents • fines, Warning Letters or holds on clinical trials; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic partners, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Reimbursement may not be available, or may be available at only limited levels, for DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidates that we develop, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably. Market acceptance and sales of DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidates that we may develop will depend in large part on global reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the U.S. and other key international markets. Successful commercialization of our products will depend in part on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of our products. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In particular, in the U.S., private health insurers and other third-party payers often provide reimbursement for treatments based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the U.S., the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the U.S. and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. In Europe, the success of our products, including LODOTRA and, if approved, DUEXIS, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. To date, LODOTRA is approved in 16 European countries and Israel and reimbursement for LODOTRA has been obtained in Germany and Italy. Mundipharma is seeking reimbursement in a number of countries in Europe and Israel and currently sells LODOTRA without reimbursed pricing in a limited number of European countries. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceutical products, which we believe has impacted the reimbursement rates and timing to launch for LODOTRA to date, and we expect these discounts to continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of current economic conditions. For example, legislation was recently enacted in Germany that will increase the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals and likely lower the revenues from the sale of LODOTRA in Germany that we would otherwise receive. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to achieve profitability or expected rates of growth in revenue or results of operations. Any shortfalls in revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents In light of such policies and the uncertainty surrounding proposed regulations and changes in the reimbursement policies of governments and third-party payers, we cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for DUEXIS, for LODOTRA in any additional markets or for any other product candidates that we may develop. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidates that we may develop. The U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the U.S. and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians, and teaching hospitals, as defined in the PPACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any payment or “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012; • expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. 43 Table of Contents The United States Supreme Court has accepted petitions to hear a constitutional challenge to the PPACA in 2012. If the Supreme Court rules that the PPACA is unconstitutional, we could require new expenditures to adjust to the new competitive environment, and new legislation could later become law that could adversely affect the pharmaceutical industry. We anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for DUEXIS and any other approved product in the U.S. and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS and any other products that we may develop, due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. There may be additional pressure by payers and healthcare providers to use generic drugs that contain the active ingredients found in DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidates that we may develop. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and expected revenue and profitability which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may also experience pressure by payers to certain promotional approaches that we may implement such as co-pay programs whereby we assist patients to achieve an acceptable co-pay for our product, which may be contrary to payers’ financial interests. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. DUEXIS and any of our other products or product candidates that are approved by the FDA and commercialized in the U.S. may subject us directly, or indirectly through our customers, to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal physician self-referral laws, such as the Stark laws and state equivalents, prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician’s family member has a financial interest and prohibit submission of a claim for reimbursement pursuant to a prohibited referral. Penalties for violations of the Stark laws include denial of payment, refund of payment, imposition of up to $15,000 in civil monetary penalties for each claim submitted in violation of the laws, up to $100,000 in civil monetary penalties for each “arrangement or scheme” that violates the laws, a civil monetary penalty of three times the amount claimed, and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program and/or other government health programs. 44 Table of Contents The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claims Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and report gifts to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit pharmaceutical companies from providing gifts or meals to healthcare providers or require companies to post information relating to clinical studies. In addition, California requires pharmaceutical companies that engage in marketing to implement a comprehensive compliance program that includes a limit on expenditures for, or payments to, individual prescribers. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws, including the development of a comprehensive compliance program, is difficult, costly and time consuming and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of applicable safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies of DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS, and we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies of any other approved products. The commercialization of any of our products could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices or fail to maintain or achieve satisfactory regulatory compliance. The facilities used by our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and product candidates must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities. We do not control the manufacturing processes of third-party manufacturers and are currently completely dependent on our third-party manufacturing partners Pharmaceutics International, Inc., located in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, or sanofi-aventis U.S., and operating through its affiliate sanofi-aventis Canada Inc., located in Laval, Canada for production of DUEXIS, and Jagotec AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SkyePharma PLC and operating through its affiliate SkyePharma SAS, located in Lyon, France, for production of LODOTRA. In August 2011, SkyePharma leased their entire pharmaceutical manufacturing business to the Aenova France SAS, or Aenova. As such, Aenova is now a subcontractor for Jagotec for the manufacture of LODOTRA, with our consent. Bayer Schering Pharma AG in Germany has been qualified as a backup manufacturer. In December 2011, Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc., or Valeant, acquired Dermik, a dermatology unit of sanofi-aventis U.S., which includes the Laval, Canada site. Although, Valeant has taken over management and operations at the Laval, Canada facility, our manufacturing agreement remains with sanofi-aventis U.S. We purchase the primary active ingredients for DUEXIS from BASF Corporation in Bishop, Texas and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories in India, and the primary active ingredient for LODOTRA from Tianjin Tianyao Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. in China and Sanofi-Aventis SA in France. If any of our third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the applicable regulatory authorities’ strict regulatory requirements, or pass regulatory inspection, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing 45 Table of Contents facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of third-party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities do not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our products or if they withdraw any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or third-party manufacturers decide they no longer want to supply our primary active ingredients or manufacture our products, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our products. Pharmaceutics International performs manufacturing services related to DUEXIS for us pursuant to a master services agreement under which we submit work orders for specific services. Pharmaceutics International is not obligated to accept any work orders that we submit in the future and we cannot be certain that Pharmaceutics International will continue to be willing to perform manufacturing services related to DUEXIS on acceptable terms to us or at all. In May 2011, we entered into a long-term supply and manufacturing agreement with sanofi-aventis U.S. for the manufacture of DUEXIS. In December 2011, Valeant acquired the Dermik dermatology unit of sanofi-aventis U.S., which includes the Laval, Canada site. Although, Valeant has taken over management and operations at the Laval, Canada facility, our manufacturing agreement remains with sanofi-aventis U.S. Although we have entered into supply agreements for the manufacture of our products, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Under our manufacturing and supply agreement with sanofi-aventis U.S., either we or sanofi-aventis U.S. may terminate the agreement upon an uncured breach by the other party or without cause upon two years prior written notice, so long as such notice is given after the third anniversary of the first commercial sale of DUEXIS. Under our manufacturing and supply agreement with Jagotec, either we or Jagotec may terminate the agreement in the event of an insolvency, liquidation or bankruptcy of the other party or upon an uncured breach by the other party. While we have the right to receive a continuing supply of LODOTRA from Jagotec for a period of 24 months after termination, we cannot assure you that we would be able to establish another commercial supply of LODOTRA in that time-frame, or qualify any new supplier with the applicable regulatory authorities on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we do not have the capability to package DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidates for distribution. Consequently, we have entered into an agreement with Temmler Werke GmbH for packaging of LODOTRA in 16 European countries, Israel and in the U.S. if RAYOS is approved by the FDA, as well as any additional countries as may be agreed to by the parties. If we obtain marketing approval from the applicable regulatory authorities including the FDA, we intend to sell drug product finished and packaged by either Temmler Werke GmbH or an alternate packager. Sanofi-aventis Canada Inc. will manufacture and supply DUEXIS to us in final, packaged form in North America and certain countries and territories in Europe, including the European Union member states and Scandinavia, and South America. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Though we believe we have resolved any stability issues with respect to the commercial formulation of DUEXIS, we cannot assure you that any other stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of any of our products will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to launch DUEXIS and LODOTRA in the U.S. or provide any product candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in our ability to meet commercial demand for DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS will result in the loss of potential revenues and could adversely affect our ability to gain market acceptance for these products. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely. 46 Table of Contents Failures or difficulties faced at any level of our supply chain could materially adversely affect our business and delay or impede the development and commercialization of any of our products or product candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We are dependent on Mundipharma to commercialize LODOTRA in Europe and certain Asian, Latin American and other countries. Failure of Mundipharma or any other third parties to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates in the applicable jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on Mundipharma for commercialization of LODOTRA in various European countries and certain Asian, Latin American and other countries. We have limited contractual rights to force Mundipharma to invest significantly in commercialization of LODOTRA in its markets. In the event that Mundipharma or any other third party with any future commercialization rights to any of our products or product candidates fails to adequately commercialize those products or product candidates because it lacks adequate financial or other resources, decides to focus on other initiatives or otherwise, our ability to successfully commercialize our products or product candidates in the applicable jurisdictions would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We also rely on Mundipharma’s ability to obtain regulatory approval for LODOTRA in certain Asian, Latin American and other countries. In addition, our agreements with Mundipharma may be terminated by either party in the event of a bankruptcy of the other party or upon an uncured material breach by the other party. If Mundipharma terminated its agreements with us, we may not be able to secure an alternative distributor in the applicable territory on a timely basis or at all, in which case our ability to generate revenues from the sale of LODOTRA would be materially harmed. DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent regulatory approval or commercialization or have a significant impact on customer demand. Undesirable side effects caused by any product candidate that we develop could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. In our two Phase 3 trials with DUEXIS, the most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events were nausea, dyspepsia, diarrhea, constipation and upper respiratory tract infection. The most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events in the Phase 3 clinical trials with LODOTRA/RAYOS included flare in RA-related symptoms, abdominal pain, nasopharyngitis, headache, flushing, upper respiratory tract infection, back pain and weight gain. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require, or we may undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of our product candidates. In addition, if DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any other product candidate that we may develop that receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, or there is a perception that the product is associated with undesirable side effects: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed; and • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product or implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy. If any of these events occurred with respect to DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS, our ability to generate significant revenues from the sale of these products would be significantly harmed. 47 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines or if they experience regulatory compliance issues, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed. We have agreements with third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical programs and anticipate that we may enter into other such agreements in the future regarding our other product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for the execution of our clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol. We and our CROs are required to comply with current GCP or ICH regulations. The FDA enforces these GCP or ICH regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP or ICH regulations, the data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and our submission of marketing applications may be delayed or the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply or complied with GCP or ICH regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations, and require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our products and product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Switching or adding additional CROs can involve substantial cost and require extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or prospects. In addition, pursuant to a March 2011 letter agreement and in connection with our waiver of certain milestone payments, Mundipharma has agreed to conduct a separate clinical trial for LODOTRA for the potential treatment of polymyalgia rheumatica, or PMR, which we expect will be a Phase 3 clinical trial. We have limited control over the timing and implementation of the planned clinical trial and Mundipharma may carry the clinical trial out in a manner that does not maximize the trial’s chances of success or could lead to trial results that harm our and Mundipharma’s ability to market LODOTRA as a treatment for RA. If Mundipharma does not begin or complete the trial on the timelines that we anticipate, or at all, our ability to obtain marketing approval for LODOTRA/RAYOS for the treatment of PMR will be delayed, and our business prospects would be harmed. While we have the right to use any data resulting from the planned clinical trial, we may not own the results from the trial, which could make it more difficult to pursue the development of LODOTRA/RAYOS as a treatment for PMR on our own. We also, as part of the April 23, 2011 FDA approval of DUEXIS, have a commitment under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, to conduct an assessment of the safety and effectiveness of the product for the 48 Table of Contents claimed indication in pediatric patients. Although we are committed to carrying out these commitments, there are challenges in conducting studies in pediatric patients including availability of patients and obtaining parental informed consent. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical testing. To the extent that we are required to conduct additional clinical development of DUEXIS or LODOTRA/RAYOS or we conduct clinical development of our earlier stage product candidates or additional indications for LODOTRA/RAYOS, we may experience delays in these clinical trials. We are in the process of investigating LODOTRA through an investigator-initiated Phase 2 study as a potential treatment for PMR and pursuant to a March 2011 letter agreement, Mundipharma has agreed to conduct a separate clinical trial for LODOTRA/RAYOS in this indication, which we expect will be a Phase 3 clinical trial. Additionally, we have several earlier stage product candidates to treat pain-related diseases including TRUNOC (tarenflurbil) for the treatment of pain-related diseases and HZN-602, a single pill combination of naproxen and famotidine, for reducing the risk of NSAID-induced upper GI ulcers in patients with mild to moderate pain and arthritis who require the use of naproxen. While we are currently not focusing any resources on these potential product candidates, we do not know whether any additional clinical trials will be initiated in the future, begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • reaching agreement with the FDA on any SPAs we submit; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board or ethics committee approval at each site; • recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; • having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; • clinical sites dropping out of a trial; • adding new sites; or • manufacturing sufficient quantities of product candidates for use in clinical trials. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Furthermore, we expect to rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our future clinical trials and while we intend to have agreements governing their committed activities, we will have limited influence over their actual performance. 49 Table of Contents We could encounter delays if prescribing physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our product candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we terminate, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects significantly. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we fail to develop and commercialize other product candidates or products, our business and prospects would be limited. A key element of our strategy is to develop or in-license and commercialize a portfolio of other product candidates in addition to DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS. Since we do not have proprietary drug discovery technology, the success of this strategy depends in large part upon the combination of our regulatory, development and commercial capabilities and expertise and our ability to identify, select and acquire or in-license clinically enabled product candidates for the treatment of pain-related diseases or that otherwise fit into our development plans on terms that are acceptable to us. Identifying, selecting and acquiring or licensing promising product candidates requires substantial technical, financial and human resources and technical expertise. Efforts to do so may not result in the actual acquisition or license of a particular product candidate, potentially resulting in a diversion of our management’s time and the expenditure of our resources with no resulting benefit. If we are unable to identify, select and acquire or license suitable product candidates from third parties on terms acceptable to us, our business and prospects will be limited. Moreover, any product candidate we identify, select and acquire or license will require additional, time-consuming development efforts prior to commercial sale, including preclinical studies if applicable, and extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risk of failure that are inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such products that are approved will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective or desired than other commercially available alternatives. In addition, if we fail to successfully commercialize and further develop DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS, there is a greater likelihood that we will fail to successfully develop a pipeline of other product candidates to follow these lead product candidates, and our business and prospects would therefore be harmed. We may seek to engage in strategic transactions that could have a variety of negative consequences, and we may not realize the benefits of such transactions or attempts to engage in such transactions. From time to time, we may seek to engage in strategic transactions with third parties, such as acquisitions of companies or divisions of companies, asset purchases, or in-licensing of product candidates or technologies that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. We may also consider a variety of other business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business 50 Table of Contents combinations and other investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, pose significant integration challenges, require additional expertise, result in dilution to our existing stockholders and disrupt our management and business, which could harm our operations and financial results. Moreover, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and transactions, and the negotiation process for any strategic transaction can be time-consuming and complex. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to engage in certain strategic transactions because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, our product candidates and programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and/or third parties may not view our product candidates and programs as having the requisite potential. There is no assurance that, following the consummation of a strategic transaction, we will achieve the anticipated revenues or net income that justifies such transaction. Any failures or delays in entering into strategic transactions could also delay or negatively impact the development and commercialization of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. In addition, any failures or delays in entering into strategic transactions anticipated by analysts or the investment community could result in a decline in our stock price. Business interruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. While we carry insurance for certain of these events, the occurrence of any of these business interruptions could seriously harm our business and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. A majority of our management operates in our principal executive offices located in Deerfield, Illinois. If our Deerfield offices were affected by a natural or man-made disaster or other business interruption, our ability to manage our domestic and foreign operations could be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely, and intend to rely in the future, on third-party manufacturers, located in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Laval, Quebec, Canada, St. Louis, Missouri and Lyon, France, to produce our products. Our ability to obtain commercial supplies of our products could be disrupted, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the operations of these suppliers were affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. The ultimate impact of such events on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure is unknown. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the commercial sales of DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS and the clinical testing of our product candidates. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products or product candidates that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • initiation of investigations by regulators; • costs to defend the related litigation; 51 Table of Contents • a diversion of management’s time and our resources; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; • loss of revenue; • exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; • an event of default under our $60.0 million senior secured loan; • the inability to commercialize our products or product candidates; and • a decline in our stock price. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical studies and commercial product sales in the amount of $10 million in the aggregate. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of DUEXIS and/or the commercial launch of LODOTRA/RAYOS in additional markets, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturers’ activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of our product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. If we are subject to any liability as a result of our third-party manufacturers’ activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In the future we may seek to establish longer term third-party manufacturing arrangements, pursuant to which we would seek to obtain contractual indemnification protection from such third-party manufacturers potentially limiting this liability exposure. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, provide accurate information to the FDA, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, 52 Table of Contents sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history. We have financed our operations primarily through equity and debt financings and have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. We had a net loss of $113.3 million, $27.1 million and $20.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $220.3 million. We do not know whether or when we will become profitable. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ deficit and working capital. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our development activities for our products and product candidates. We anticipate that our operating losses will substantially increase over the next several years as we execute our plan to expand our development and commercialization activities of DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS. We have limited product revenues and other sources of revenues. We may never achieve or sustain profitability, which would depress the market price of our common stock, and could cause our investors to lose all or a part of their investment. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenues from sales of our products. DUEXIS was approved by the FDA on April 23, 2011, and we began generating limited revenues from sales of DUEXIS in late 2011 following the commercial launch in the U.S. LODOTRA is approved for marketing in Europe, and to date we have generated only limited revenues from sales of LODOTRA. We may never be able to successfully commercialize DUEXIS or develop or commercialize other products or sell RAYOS in the U.S., which we believe represents its most significant commercial opportunity, or sell DUEXIS in Europe. Our ability to generate future revenues depends heavily on our success in: • commercializing DUEXIS, RAYOS and any other product candidates for which we obtain approval; • securing U.S. and additional foreign regulatory approvals for LODOTRA/RAYOS and foreign regulatory approvals for DUEXIS; and • developing and commercializing a portfolio of other product candidates in addition to DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS. Even if we do generate additional product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. 53 Table of Contents The terms of our senior debt facility require us to meet certain operating and financial covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. In February 2012, we entered into a $60.0 million senior secured loan with a group of institutional lenders, which we refer to as the Senior Secured Loan. The Senior Secured Loan is secured by a lien covering substantially all of our U.S. based assets including intellectual property and we also pledged as collateral all of our equity interests in Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. and 65% of our equity interests in Horizon Pharma AG. The loan agreements governing the Senior Secured Loan contain customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. Among the affirmative covenants are covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum level of at least $10.0 million in liquidity at all times during the term of the loan unless our quarterly consolidated EBITDA is at least $6.0 million, and to achieve minimum net revenues during specified trailing 12 month periods beginning with the 12 month period ended June 30, 2012. Should we not meet these quarterly minimum revenue covenants, in addition to an increase in the interest rate payable under the loan facility, the lenders have the right to demand repayment of the obligations under the loan. While we believe, based on our current estimates that we will meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants under the loan facility, there can be no assurance that we will. We also cannot predict whether the lenders would demand repayment of the outstanding balance of the loan if we were unable to meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants. The inability to meet the covenants under the loan facility could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. The negative covenants include, among other things, restrictions on transferring or licensing our assets, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, and creating other liens on our assets, in each case subject to customary exceptions. Further, our lenders may require us to make prepayments of loan principal if we receive net cash proceeds from certain transfers or licenses of our assets or as a result of the loss or destruction of our assets, or if we undergo a change in control. Beginning with our second fiscal quarter of 2013 and in any fiscal quarter thereafter, our lenders may require that we prepay up to an aggregate of approximately $4.0 million for each quarter for which we receive a prepayment request. In addition, if we default under our Senior Secured Loan, our lenders may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, our lenders’ right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. Our lenders could declare a default under our Senior Secured Loan upon the occurrence of any event that the lenders interpret as having a material adverse effect upon us as defined under the loan agreements, thereby requiring us to repay the loans immediately or to attempt to reverse the lenders’ declaration through negotiation or litigation. Any declaration by the lenders of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. We may need to obtain additional financing even after the recently completed debt and equity financings to successfully commercialize or further develop DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS, develop other product candidates or continue our other research and development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: • launch and commercialize DUEXIS and, if approved, RAYOS in the U.S., including expanding our own sales force in the U.S.; • complete the regulatory approval process, and any future required clinical development related thereto, for DUEXIS and RAYOS; • launch and commercialize any other product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; and 54 Table of Contents • continue our research and development programs to advance our product pipeline in the future, including future clinical trials with respect to LODOTRA/RAYOS for additional indications. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including net proceeds from our recently completed debt and equity financings, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to fund our operations into the second half of 2013. We may need to raise additional funds sooner if we choose to expand our commercialization or development efforts more rapidly than we presently anticipate or our revenues do not meet expectations. We will also require additional capital if the FDA requires us to conduct additional clinical trials with respect to RAYOS. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products or product candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to: • seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Even if we obtain additional financing, our Horizon Pharma AG subsidiary is subject to Swiss laws regarding overindebtedness that require Horizon Pharma AG to maintain assets in excess of its liabilities. Our Swiss subsidiary was overindebted as of December 31, 2011 and we continue to monitor and review steps to address the overindebtedness. In order to comply with these laws, we may be required to have cash at our Swiss subsidiary in excess of its near term operating needs and could limit the amount of cash available to our U.S. subsidiary. If we are unable to allocate sufficient cash to our U.S. subsidiary, even if we have sufficient cash on a consolidated basis, our ability to execute our U.S. business plan may be harmed. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish intellectual property rights to our product candidates. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, receivables or royalty financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt, receivables and royalty financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders’ ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. While we have restrictions on the usage of the funds from our debt facility through debt covenants, we have broad discretion in the use of our cash from the recent equity financing and may not use it effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash, and investors will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the use of our cash. Our management may not apply our cash in ways 55 Table of Contents that ultimately increase the value of any investment in our securities. We expect to use our existing cash to fund U.S. commercialization activities for DUEXIS and pre-commercialization activities for RAYOS, to fund additional regulatory approvals of DUEXIS and RAYOS, to fund development of LODOTRA/RAYOS for other indications and our other product candidates and for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We may also invest our cash in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our stockholders. If we do not invest or apply our cash in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We have concluded that as a result of our acquisition of Nitec and related transactions occurring on April 1, 2010, we have triggered an “ownership change” limitation and that we will be subject to annual limits on our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards. We estimate that these annual limits will be $49.9 million, $18.1 million and $16.9 million for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and will be cumulative such that any use of the carryforwards below the limitation in one year will result in a corresponding increase in the limitation for the subsequent tax year. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, including potentially as a result of our recent debt and equity financings. Any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards will likely increase the taxes we would otherwise pay in future years if we were not subject to such limitations. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the past several years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult to complete, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon commercialization or development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. At December 31, 2011, we had $18.0 million of cash and cash equivalents consisting of cash and money market funds. Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we received net proceeds of $34.0 million from the Senior Secured Loan, which was completed on February 22, 2012, and net proceeds of $47.7 million from an equity financing, which was completed on March 2, 2012. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities since December 31, 2011, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. 56 Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the consolidation of Horizon Pharma AG and Horizon Pharma USA adds additional complexity to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in the application of existing rules or guidance applicable to us or our wholly-owned subsidiaries could significantly affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our products and product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our products and product candidates. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover the products in the U.S. or in other foreign countries. If this were to occur, early generic competition could be expected against DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS and other product candidates in development. There is no assurance that all of the potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, which can invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing based on a pending patent application. In particular, because the active pharmaceutical ingredients in DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS have been on the market as separate products for many years, it is possible that these products have previously been used off-label in such a manner that such prior usage would affect the validity of our patents or our ability to obtain patents based on our patent applications. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed or invalidated. On February 15, 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Patent Certification from Par, advising that Par has filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of DUEXIS, containing 800 mg of ibuprofen and 26.6 mg of famotidine. Par has not advised us as to the timing or status of the FDA’s review of its filing, or whether it has complied with FDA requirements for proving bioequivalence. We are evaluating the Paragraph IV certification and intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to DUEXIS, but we cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Any adverse outcome in this matter could result in one or more generic versions of DUEXIS being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of DUEXIS and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the patent applications we hold with respect to DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS fail to issue or if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop them, and threaten our ability to commercialize, our products. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue or whether any issued patents will be found not invalid and not unenforceable or will go unthreatened by third parties. Further, if we encounter delays in regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS under patent protection could be reduced. Since patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, and some remain so until issued, we cannot be certain that we were the first to file any patent application related to DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS or our other product candidates. Furthermore, if third parties have filed such patent applications, an interference proceeding in the U.S. can be provoked by a third party or instituted by us to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to 57 Table of Contents enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we expect all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed or that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was recently signed into law and includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include changes in the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to administer the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications, our ability to obtain patents based on our patent applications and our ability to enforce or defend our issued patents. An inability to obtain, enforce and defend patents covering our proprietary technologies would materially and adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. and Canada. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the U.S. and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the non-patented intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will have any such enforceable trade secret protection, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the U.S., involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter party reexamination proceedings before the U.S. PTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of DUEXIS and LODOTRA/RAYOS and/or our other product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our product candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such product candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 58 Table of Contents Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents do not exist which might be enforced against our products, resulting in either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation to third parties. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we hold an exclusive license to SkyePharma AG’s proprietary technology and know-how covering the delayed release of corticosteroids relating to LODOTRA/RAYOS. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreement with SkyePharma or our other license agreements, or we are subject to a bankruptcy, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license, including LODOTRA/RAYOS. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Our defense of litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 59 Table of Contents Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors that control the prosecution and maintenance of our licensed patents fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of our employees’ former employers or other third parties. We may also be subject to claims that former employers or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. There is no guarantee of success in defending these claims, and if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and other employees. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock We do not know whether an active, liquid and orderly trading market will develop for our common stock or what the market price of our common stock will be and as a result it may be difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock. Prior to our initial public offering there was no market for shares of our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained. Further, an inactive market may impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products by using our shares of common stock as consideration. The price of our stock is likely to be highly volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock following the completion of our initial public offering has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including limited trading volume. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this prospectus, these factors include: • our failure to successfully execute our commercialization strategy with respect to our approved products, particularly our commercial launch of DUEXIS in the U.S.; • any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA’s review of our RAYOS NDA or the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency’s review of our MAA for 60 Table of Contents DUEXIS filed in the European Union through the Decentralized Procedure, and amended in February 2012 through the National Procedure in the UK; • disputes or other developments relating to intellectual property and other proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and product candidates; • unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of DUEXIS, LODOTRA/RAYOS or any of our other product candidates; • adverse regulatory decisions; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products or product candidates, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; • inability to obtain adequate commercial supply for any approved product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; • developments concerning our commercial partners, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply; • our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • our failure to successfully develop additional product candidates; • introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • our inability to effectively manage our growth; • overall performance of the equity markets and general political and economic conditions; • failure to meet or exceed revenue and financial projections we may provide to the public; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • our inability to successfully enter new markets; • the termination of a collaboration or the inability to establish additional collaborations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • our inability to maintain an adequate rate of growth; • ineffectiveness of our internal controls; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; 61 Table of Contents • trading volume of our common stock; • effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events or other business interruptions; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market and the stocks of biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited by the terms of our Senior Secured Loan, and any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, five percent or greater stockholders and their respective affiliates held in the aggregate approximately 67% of our outstanding voting stock as of December 31, 2011. Therefore, these stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that our stockholders may feel are in their best interest. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. For example, we expect these rules and regulations will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain and maintain director and officer liability insurance. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If we fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to obtain future financing. 62 Table of Contents The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report, commencing in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012, on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Unless we qualify for an exemption as a non-accelerated filer under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts, particularly because of our holding company structure and international operations. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules adopted by the SEC and by NASDAQ, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expired on January 29, 2012. Upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements, a substantial number of shares of common stock became eligible for sale in the public market, subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to any of these shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates. In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans are or may become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Certain holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares purchased by affiliates. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions 63 Table of Contents at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in subsequent transactions, our existing stockholders may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our 2011 equity incentive plan, or 2011 EIP, our board of directors is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our 2011 EIP will automatically increase on January 1 of each year starting January 1, 2012 by an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of our capital stock outstanding as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year or 1,474,304 shares, subject to the ability of our board of directors to take action to reduce the size of such increase in any given year. In addition, our board of directors may grant or provide for the grant of rights to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the 2011 employee stock purchase plan, or 2011 ESPP. The number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance will automatically increase on January 1 of each year starting January 1, 2012 by an amount equal to the lesser of 4% of our capital stock outstanding as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year or 1,053,074, subject to the ability of our board of directors to take action to reduce the size of such increase in any given year. On December 15, 2011, pursuant to the terms of our 2011 EIP and 2011 ESPP, our board of directors approved increases in the number of shares available for issuance under the 2011 EIP and the 2011 ESPP of 672,500 shares and 100,000 shares, respectively, effective as of January 1, 2012. Shares available for issuance under the 2011 EIP and 2011 ESPP were initially registered on a registration statement on Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 28, 2011. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders or remove our current management. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • creating a staggered board of directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of 64 Table of Contents delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on our company. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would likely be negatively impacted. In the event securities or industry analysts initiate coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business and could subject us to significant liabilities. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Even if we are successful in defending against any such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our financial condition and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 