ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Because we intend to continue to emphasize commercial real estate loan originations, our credit risk could increase and continued weakness in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings. 13 Table of Contents We intend to continue our emphasis on originating commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans totaled $95.8 million or 32.1% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2013. Commercial real estate loans generally have more risk than the one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Any continued weakness or downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The majority of our portfolio loans have fixed interest rates. Additionally, many of our securities investments have fixed interest rates. Like many financial institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or short contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. Changes in interest rates creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2013, a “rate shock” analysis indicated that our net portfolio value (the difference between the present value of our assets and the present value of our liabilities) would decrease by approximately $8.5 million, or 9.95%, if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has experienced an economic downturn, may increase the risk of increased nonperforming assets. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the Pennsylvania counties of Allegheny, Westmoreland and Bedford and Allegany County, Maryland, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. A decline in real estate values would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in our markets. In addition, continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Continued or sustained deterioration in the housing sector and related markets and prolonged elevated unemployment levels may adversely affect our business and financial results. Over recent years, general economic conditions remain relatively weak nationally as well as in our market area. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business is tied significantly to the housing market. 14 Table of Contents Declines in home prices, and increases in foreclosures and unemployment levels, have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate loans, resulting in the write-down of some asset values. The gradual housing recovery may result in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on construction, residential and commercial real estate loans. The ongoing concern about the economy in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to some borrowers. These conditions could cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely affect our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. Our securities portfolio includes securities that are subject to declines in value due to negative perceptions about the health of the financial sector in general and the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related. A prolonged decline in the value of these or other securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act has changed the bank regulatory framework with the creation of an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and has established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation requires additional regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These events may have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these factors could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares. In July 2013, the FDIC approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Standard Bank. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for Standard Bank on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Standard Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as the inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations and the cost of our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and 15 Table of Contents reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per account. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Savings banks, such as Standard Bank, with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the implementation of regulations for bank and savings and loan holding companies which establish capital standards that are no less stringent than those applicable to depository institutions themselves. The Dodd-Frank Act also provided for originators of certain securitized loans to retain a percentage of the risk, directed the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees, contained a number of reforms related to mortgage origination and authorized depository institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of our compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. It is possible that we are not in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. In addition, proposed future legislation and regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefits them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1 - Business - Standard Bank - Competition.” Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. Current and future proposals made by members of Congress would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may further limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting Standard Bank’s rights as a creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. 16 Table of Contents Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our internet banking, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our communications and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. New regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: · excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); · interest-only payments; · negative-amortization; and · terms longer than 30 years. Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB Marketplace. However, the average daily trading volume in Standard Financial Corp.’s common stock has been relatively small. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 