Risk Factors Investing in our ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes, before making an investment decision regarding our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are those significant risk factors, currently known and specific to us, that we believe are relevant to an investment in our securities. If any of these risks materializes, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and adversely affect your investment in our ADSs. 8 Risks Related to Our Operations Our business is affected by the uncertainties of economic and political conditions, particularly in the current macroeconomic environment, which is characterized by continuing crisis in financial markets and the potential threat of a global economic downturn. The related reduction in corporate and consumer spending may continue to place pressure on our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business environment is influenced by conditions in the domestic and global economies. Although the macroeconomic environment showed further overall improvement in the first half of 2011, the development of certain economic indicators as well as the recent turbulence in the financial markets in the second half of 2011, primarily as a result of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro-zone, still indicate a highly volatile macroeconomic environment. Future macroeconomic development is dependent upon the evolution of a number of global and local factors, such as the crisis in the credit markets, economic crises arising from sovereign debt overruns, government budget consolidation measures related thereto, reduced levels of capital expenditures, declining consumer and business confidence, increasing unemployment in certain countries, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies, natural disasters, political crises and other challenges affecting the speed of sustainable macroeconomic growth. In light of the latest economic developments, the level of public debt in the United States, as well as in Greece, Italy and other European countries, uncertainties with respect to the stability of the Chinese economy, and the potential impact of budget consolidation measures by governments around the world, the bases for our expectations relating to the overall economic situation and specific conditions in markets relevant to us are subject to considerable uncertainties. If the macroeconomic environment deteriorates and if we are not successful in adapting our production and cost structure to subsequent changes to conditions in the markets in which we operate, we may experience adverse effects that may be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. For example, it may become more difficult for our customers to obtain financing and as a result they may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services or to execute transactions. Furthermore, prices may decline as a result of adverse market conditions to a greater extent than currently anticipated. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or securing access to the capital markets, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us. In particular, we sell and distribute a significant portion of our manual-read meters and our Smart Offerings for use in new construction markets and to utilities and utility contractors, and our level of sales activity in these markets depends to a significant extent on general economic conditions. We define our Smart Offerings as automated meter reading, or AMR, meters, advanced metering infrastructure, or AMI, meters, and other meters that are equipped with communications capabilities, communications networks and related software solutions, or Smart Grid Solutions, together with individual products, components and services for use in the Smart Grid. We define smart meters as meters, which are AMR or AMI enabled, are equipped with communication capabilities and may be used as components in the Smart Grid. The Smart Grid is commonly used to refer to any gas, electricity or water network that allows utilities to measure and control production, transmission and distribution more efficiently through the use of communications technology. 9 Many utilities have announced plans or intentions to replace older meters with smart meters enabled for AMR or with meters enabled for AMI on a standalone basis or as components of Smart Grid solutions. However, some utilities have delayed their investments due to economic uncertainty, a reduction in the consumption of energy resources as a result of the economic downturn, difficulty in obtaining financing, limitations on their own or public financial resources or for other reasons. Utilities that are owned by municipalities or other public authorities may also face budgetary restrictions and funding constraints. Such uncertainties and funding constraints may lead some utilities to alter their budgeting and procurement priorities to focus on capital expenditures in areas other than metering, which may result in delays in the installation of meters and Smart Grid solutions The continued weakness of new construction markets poses a substantial risk to our business. The new construction market in the United States has in particular been in an extended period of contraction, and we are unable to predict when this market will return to levels approaching those seen before that weakness began. Similar contractions have occurred in the new construction markets in other countries, including in the United Kingdom and Spain. If countries where we have significant operations continue to experience an overall contraction in new construction markets, or if these markets fail to grow, existing orders for our metering products and services may be delayed or cancelled, and new orders may not materialize. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Numerous other factors, such as fluctuations of energy and raw material prices, as well as global political conflicts, including those in the Middle East, North Africa and other regions, continue to impact macroeconomic parameters and the international capital and credit markets. The uncertainty of economic and political conditions can have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and can also make our budgeting and forecasting more difficult. Furthermore, economic weakness and uncertainty may slow the rate of “gasification,” which we define as the expansion of natural gas infrastructure and distribution to include regions and customers, particularly in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia, not previously connected to the gas grid. Similarly, economic weakness has led to and may in the future lead to a decrease in demand for our meters and other products that we sell for transmission and distribution applications, as well as for gas utilization products, which consists of process-heating equipment, such as burner-control systems for gas-fired industrial heat treatment processes, and heat-control systems for residential and commercial boilers. As a result of these developments, existing orders for our products and services may be delayed or cancelled and new orders may not materialize, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our products may not achieve or may lose market acceptance, and, as a result, we may fail to realize both the expected level of demand for our new products and services and the expected level or timing of revenues generated by those products and services. We are exposed to the risk that new technologies, features and functionalities that we and other industry participants develop and market in connection with our manual-read meters, Smart Grid solutions and other products may not be accepted by the industry, regulators or end-users or may not meet applicable standards. This may occur as a result of technological developments or competing features or functionalities proving superior to our existing products, changes occurring in the regulatory landscape, including with respect to interoperability standards, perceptions that the new technologies are error-prone or present cyber-security risks or otherwise. There is a risk that competing technologies, features or functionalities will be favored by the industry, regulators or end-users if there is not sufficient awareness of, or interest in, our innovations. For example, the advantages that Smart Grid-enabled products can provide may fail to be effective if utility customers choose not to implement corresponding technology throughout their distribution and transmission networks, or if regulators mandate or encourage the deployment of another technology. Generally, if utilities in the United States or some European countries plan to invest additional amounts for capital improvements, including meters and AMI/AMR upgrades, the utility must present the proposed capital improvement to the relevant utility regulatory commission for approval. Many of our utility customers are required to obtain regulatory approval to pass through the costs of products and services to their customers because of the effect it may have on utility rates for consumers. Utility regulatory commissions have decided in the past, and may decide in the future, not to permit the pass-through of such costs onto consumers and this in turn could affect the products and services that our utility customers ultimately purchase. Any delay or failure to receive this approval, due to regulatory preference for another technology or otherwise, could reduce demand for the products we sell to our utility customers. Market and regulatory acceptance of Smart Grid technologies varies by country and industry based on factors, such as the regulatory and business environment, environmental concerns, labor costs and other economic conditions. 10 We also are exposed to the risk that consumers or other end-users will not welcome these new technologies, or view technologically advanced systems as responsible for higher utility bills, uncertainty in their relationships with their utilities, incursions on privacy or other real or perceived shortcomings. Some utilities and regulators are expressing concerns about the potential for near-term costs to customers of the installation of these new technologies. If our products or those of a competitor fall subject to perceptions of this nature, the resulting negative publicity for us or for the industry generally could adversely affect our business. Some public concern exists over the potential health risks associated with the use of radio frequency, or RF, communications in smart meters used in neighborhoods. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, establishes guidelines for RF emissions for equipment used in a residence or residential setting and our devices meet the guidelines. However, these guidelines may prove to be inadequate and may change, or even if the guidelines are appropriate, public concern could impact the acceptance of our products. In such a case, our projects may be delayed, interrupted or terminated as a result which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our industry is also exposed to the risk of, and to public concern about, an increased threat of “cyber attacks” on the power grid as Smart Grid infrastructure becomes more prevalent. Smart Grid privacy and security risks have attracted attention recently, as media reports have highlighted the dangers of potential instability, blackouts and economic disruption that could result from a Smart Grid cyber attack by hackers. Any cyber attack or other security breach on any component we or a competitor have provided, or on other similar technologies, could lead to a reduction in public acceptance of Smart Grid technologies and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We face increasing competition, which is broadly based and global in scope. Some of our competitors are well positioned in our areas of strategic focus, including Smart Grid technologies. If our competitors are more successful than we are at winning market share and developing their reputations in new technological or product areas, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Some of our current or future competitors have or may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources, and, in some cases, greater name recognition, market penetration and experience than we do. This may also be the case with respect to Smart Grid solutions. These competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. 11 The competitive environment in which we operate has been strongly impacted by the movement towards Smart Grid solutions. While we are increasingly focusing our business plan on the development of Smart Grid product offerings and solutions in an attempt to maintain and expand our activities and market share in this area, current or future competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer or regulatory requirements. They may also be able to drive technological innovation and develop products that are equal in quality and performance or superior to our products, which could reduce our overall sales, require us to invest additional funds in new technology development and put pressure on our market position. Our competitors also have made or may make strategic acquisitions or establish alliances or cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of customers, potentially giving them a significant increase in market share at our expense. New entrants could include competitors from industries we previously viewed as distinct from ours, such as the networking, telecommunications and systems integration industries. Should we fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In our industry, competition based on price can be intense, particularly during periods of economic decline or stagnation. We face varying levels of price erosion in the markets that we serve due to a variety of factors, including existing competitors lowering their prices, competition from manufacturers in low-cost countries and new entrants using off-the-shelf products or other low-priced strategies to gain market share. In addition, we may have a competitive cost disadvantage with our competitors who are not subject to the same legal and compliance framework as we are as a public company. During 2011, we saw intense price competition, in the water segment in the Americas and some European markets, leading to price erosion for many of our products. In addition, there is a risk that low-cost providers will enter, or form alliances or cooperative relationships with our competitors, thereby contributing to further price erosion in the market for manual-read meter and Smart Grid solutions. We may be unable to reorganize our operations to make them more efficient or reduce the costs of our supplies sufficiently to maintain our margins on our sales in the face of intense competition. Some of our products and services may become commoditized and we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. Any inability to win or maintain contracts with existing customers or from ongoing projects may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A significant number of our customers purchase products under master agreements with terms ranging from one year in many cases to two to five years for larger projects. As the market moves towards large contracts in connection with Smart Grid solutions, the proportion of such contracts in our business is likely to increase further. Individual orders of products under these master agreements are subject to cancellation or rescheduling due to many factors that may lead our customers to redeploy resources. They may also cease placing orders or cancel these agreements in their entirety, in which case our remedies may be limited. While we are currently participating in pilot projects with various utilities, large-scale projects may not result from these pilots. In addition to potential changes in their views regarding our products, they may also take such steps in response to changes in economic conditions generally or in the public procurement or regulatory environments. Cancellation or postponement of one or more of these significant contracts, or parts thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 12 If our customers reduce the number of suppliers from which they purchase, we may lose business or face more restrictive terms in our agreements and our business may suffer as a result. In an attempt to increase efficiency, some of our customers have informed us they are seeking to reduce the number of vendors from whom they purchase products and services, particularly as vendors, including us, increase the breadth of the products and solutions they offer. If we are not selected as a preferred provider in a significant number of cases, we may lose access to certain sections of the markets in which we compete or wish to compete. Failure to maintain access to important sections of the market could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Even if we are selected as a preferred provider, the possibility exists that increased competition will have an impact on the agreements customers are willing to enter into. As a result, the terms and conditions of agreements regarding testing, contractual penalties, bonding, warranties, performance and indemnities may be substantially more restrictive for us, or carry a greater risk of liability, than the terms and conditions associated with our standard products and services. A change in current and proposed regulatory initiatives that are of key significance to our company could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our industry depends substantially on governmental regulation. Historically, a key driver in our industry has been the replacement cycle of existing meters, especially the length of that cycle. Local or national regulations often determine when meters are to be replaced, and manual-read meter replacement cycles have been between five and 30 years, depending on the specific geographic market and the type and usage of the meter. Likewise, much of the impetus for the growth we expect in our industry arises from regulatory initiatives. Today, governments around the world are considering and, in some cases, have already begun to implement new laws and regulations to promote increased energy efficiency, slow or reverse growth in the consumption of scarce resources, reduce carbon dioxide emissions and protect the environment more generally. In particular, intensified regulatory pressure relating to energy and natural resource consumption is being driven by these and a range of additional imperatives in the United States and the European Union and in other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China and Russia. The European Union, for example, has provided a mandatory framework for the upgrade of all gas and electricity meters to smart meters by 2022. Many of the legislative and regulatory initiatives encourage utilities to develop Smart Grid infrastructure, and some of these initiatives provide for government subsidies, grants or other incentives to utilities and other participants in their industry to promote transition to Smart Grid technologies. If government regulations regarding the introduction of Smart Grid technologies and the related shortening of the replacement cycles for meters we expect are delayed, revised to permit lower or different investments in metering infrastructure or terminated altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 13 Lengthy or uncertain implementation of Smart Grid-related regulatory initiatives may result in our customers lowering or delaying their investments in the existing meter base and Smart Grid technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In many regions, Smart Grid-related legislation or regulation is being considered, drafted or negotiated, or general legislation is in place, but awaiting implementing rules or guidance. Legislatures and governmental agencies may prolong the law- and rule-making process, subject new technology to extensive reviews or fail to implement Smart Grid-related legislation or regulation on a timely basis, if at all. For example, some of the current legislative and regulatory initiatives in the European Union have clauses that may lead to deferral or dilution to the extent the Smart Grid initiatives are deemed economically non-viable. Some of our utility customers have been awaiting greater clarity on the scope and implementation of these laws and regulations and the timing of, and conditions related to, the receipt of related government grants, subsidies and other incentives. This effect has caused the revenues of our electricity segment to decline as utilities in the United States have been deferring their upgrades of installed meter bases and infrastructure expansions. They have accordingly been deferring their commitments for the substantial upgrades of installed meter bases and infrastructure expansions that will be part of their response to Smart Grid related regulation. While awaiting the upgrades on Smart Grids, some customers have also been deferring investments in the existing meter base. These deferrals continued throughout 2011. If a significant number of utilities continue to delay their investments or opt not to participate altogether, this could lead to shortfalls in our sales and results of operations in the short to medium term. Changes and developments in the regulations and policies of the countries we serve may affect demand for our products or cause us to incur significant costs. We are subject to a range of laws, regulations and ordinances in all of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, and we and our customers are regulated by various bodies at the supranational, national, state and local level. For example, in many U.S. states, public utility commissions regulate utilities in their states separately from other state regulators and federal agencies. The laws, regulations and ordinances to which we are subject, and the actions and attitudes of regulators, can change from time to time. Compliance with current or future laws and regulations may increase our expenses if their complexity or inconsistency increases, while failure to comply could result in the imposition of significant fines, suspension of our production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of our operations or other actions in the jurisdictions concerned, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. In particular, governmental agencies and state public utility commissions may promulgate regulations that mandate or encourage the use of a particular type of technology that is not readily compatible with the technology employed in our products or may otherwise establish standards that are more favorable to our competitors. For example, in the United States, the National Institute of Standards and Technology is statutorily required to define uniform interoperability standards for the implementation of Smart Grid solutions, and the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is required to engage in a rulemaking process to consider making these interoperability standards mandatory for interstate electricity transmission and wholesale power markets. This process may favor one company’s technology over another’s. If this were to happen, particularly in the larger markets in which we sell our products, we could be forced to withdraw some of our products from the market, make substantial investments in a new technology or lose market share to our competitors, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 14 Changes to data protection laws and regulations and their interpretation in Europe may lead to a delay in related Smart Grid solution initiatives, which could adversely affect the demand for our smart meters and Smart Grid solutions. In Europe we are subject to data protection regulation that imposes a general regulatory framework for the collection, processing and use of personal data. Many of our Smart Grid and other technologies rely on the transfer of data relating to individuals and are accordingly affected by these regulations. Although the European Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC) has been implemented across the European Union, data protection laws across member states vary to a large degree, and authorities do not always apply existing laws in a consistent manner. While privacy issues in connection with AMR, AMI and Smart Grid solutions have been discussed within the European Union, it is unclear how regulation in connection with privacy requirements will further develop and to what extent it may affect technology in our industry relating to Smart Grid solutions. It may also lead to delay in other regulatory initiatives supporting the implementation of Smart Grid solutions. Some of our business structures, processes or actions may infringe applicable data protection standards and as a consequence we may have to take costly and burdensome measures to change these business structures, processes or actions, and may face administrative fines or other sanctions for such infringement. Our business could suffer a material adverse effect as a result. Changes and developments in product certification and calibration requirements may adversely affect demand for our products, cause us to incur significant costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to various governmental certification requirements and similar regulations. Many of our new products and much of our equipment require certifications, calibrations or regulatory approvals before they may be sold or used. In some areas, each item we produce must be separately calibrated or certified by a governmental agency prior to deployment. We cannot be certain that any of our new products and equipment requiring approval will be approved in a timely manner, if at all. If certification, calibration or approval requirements become more stringent or cumbersome in the future, or differ materially on a regional or national level, our ability to market our products may be impaired. In some cases, existing calibration requirements currently work to our benefit by driving service opportunities and meter replacement. Our water meter products in particular are subject to ongoing calibration requirements in a number of European countries and our gas meters are generally subject to exacting safety tests. In Germany, for example, federal regulations require cold water meters to be recalibrated and repaired every six years, while hot water meters must be recalibrated and repaired every five years. German and certain U.S. state regulations also require that gas meters be tested periodically and serviced when needed. Because of the relative expense involved in repairing water and gas meters, many customers install new meters at the time national regulations call for recalibration and repair. If these national regulations were changed to extend the time for recalibration and repair, our sales of water and gas meters could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 15 Limitations on the capacity of unlicensed frequencies or the inability of our company or our customers to obtain licenses where required may result in lower demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our communications technologies use particular radio frequencies and thus are subject to the regulation of various governmental bodies, such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and corresponding regulatory institutions of various U.S. states and European countries. With respect to the United States in particular, currently very few of our products operate using licensed radio frequencies, but additional AMI and AMR products may operate in the United States using licensed radio frequencies in the future. To the extent that our products and solutions use licensed frequencies, there is a risk that there may be insufficient available licensed frequencies in some markets, that neither we nor our customers will be able to obtain licenses where required, even if sufficient frequencies are available, and that licenses that are granted to us or our customers may not be renewed on acceptable terms, if at all. Also, while unlicensed frequencies may currently be available for a wide variety of uses, including our RF mesh communications technology, we and our customers may not be entitled to protection from interference by others who operate on frequencies close to or the same as those on which our products operate. If currently unlicensed frequencies become unacceptably crowded, or subject to restrictive rules governing their use, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. We may face volatility in the prices for, and availability of, components, raw materials and energy used in our business, which could adversely impact the competitive position of our products, decrease profit margins and negatively impact timely delivery to customers. The manufacturing processes for all of our products, especially in our gas and water segments, require a wide variety of components, raw materials and energy, including gas and electricity. We use components such as brass castings, aluminum housings, sheet metal, plastics and printed circuit board assemblies and other electronics. Important raw materials include steel, resins, aluminum, brass and bronze. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with these manufactured components, raw materials and energy. Since we do not control the actual production of the components, raw materials and energy sources used in the manufacturing processes for our products, we are subject to delivery delays for reasons that are beyond our control. Supply curtailments or interruptions could arise from shortages of components, raw materials and energy, especially as demand for them (particularly electronics) increases in connection with any economic recovery, as well as from labor disputes, transportation disruptions, impaired financial condition of suppliers, extreme weather or other natural disasters. In addition, prices of components, raw materials or energy may increase or become more volatile. We recently have experienced difficulties in passing on to our customers the full amount of increases in the prices of components, raw materials and energy, which has had an adverse effect on our profit margins, in particular in our water segment, and to a lesser extent, our gas segment. In many cases, especially for brass, steel and aluminum, we seek to manage our exposure to changing prices by executing procurement contracts for periods of up to one year with our suppliers of these materials or of components that include them. We may pay higher prices with this approach than we otherwise would have should market prices decline during the life of the contracts. Any inability to obtain adequate supplies of component parts, raw materials and energy at favorable prices could decrease our profit margins and negatively impact timely deliveries to our customers. In addition, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from some of our suppliers, or the loss of key supplier relationships and the need to find alternative sources on potentially disadvantageous terms, could lead to a reduction in our production and sales volumes and in our profit margins. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 16 We have contracted with third-party manufacturers to provide a substantial portion of our production capabilities. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our outsourcing arrangements effectively or if we are unable to project our demand accurately. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and manufacture products in a cost-effective manner. We outsource the manufacturing of some of our products and their sub-assemblies and components such as brass castings, aluminum housings, sheet metal, plastics and printed circuit board assemblies and other electronics, especially for solid state meters used by gas, electricity and water utilities to maintain focus on our core competencies and streamline our operations, as well as to minimize our manufacturing costs. Solid state meters measure gas, electricity or water using electronic devices instead of mechanical components. The outsourcing of manufacturing capabilities reduces the day-to-day control that we are able to exercise over the production process and could result in quality problems and increased product warranty costs. In addition, as we outsource additional production capacity, we will retain limited internal production capacity and will rely more on third-party manufacturers to fill orders on a timely basis. While our strategy calls for having more than one supplier for each important product and component, we rely on a single source for some key product lines, products and components that we purchase from third-party manufacturers, such as for diaphragms for our North American residential gas meters manufactured at one of our facilities. In some cases, our purchases account for a material portion of some of our suppliers’ respective businesses. The third-party manufacturers with whom we work often require us to provide accurate forecasts, sometimes months in advance. If we overestimate our requirements, we may be obligated to purchase quantities of products that exceed customer demand. If we underestimate our requirements, particularly in connection with large rollouts, we may have inadequate inventory from which to meet customer demand. From time to time, some of our suppliers may have difficulties keeping pace with our requirements if we increase our orders with little advance notice in response to demand for our products. While we are seeking to give our suppliers more advance notice of our peak requirements and holding more of the affected components in inventory where possible, we may fail to do so, or may, for reasons outside our control, not have access to sufficient supplies, which may cause even longer lead times. In any case where we must forecast our supply needs, our inability to forecast demand accurately may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In the past, we have experienced significantly extended lead times at some of our suppliers, which have negatively impacted our revenues. If we experience extended lead times in the future and are unable to ensure sufficient supplies, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Lead times for the components we purchase from third-party manufacturers depend on a variety of factors, including the demand for each component and supplier capacity. If our third-party manufacturers or any of their sub-suppliers fail to deliver quality products and services in a timely manner, or if our ability to source from alternative suppliers cannot be maintained or if a supplier that is dependent on us is unable to cope with variations in our ordering patterns, the ensuing disruptions in our chain of supply could negatively affect our product portfolio, reputation, sales and ability to meet large orders, especially in the context of large rollouts. 17 In the past, we have experienced significantly extended lead times at our suppliers that provide components used in some of our products, in particular for electronic components. In addition, the natural disasters and nuclear power plant emergencies in Japan earlier in 2011, as well as the flooding in Thailand in fall 2011, may result in additional interruptions or long-term delays in the worldwide supply of components that manufacturers, potentially including our suppliers and their sub-suppliers, use in electronic components for use in many industries, including ours. As a result of the Thailand flooding, we have been forced to find alternative sources for certain of our components, particularly for our North American production of water and electricity meters. This process, which is currently underway, may be subject to delays and may result in interruptions in the production of some of our products if we are not able to successfully finalize testing of the alternative components in time and/or we are not able to find suitable alternative sources of supply. While we are not able to predict the effects, if any, on us of a longer term disruption in Japanese industry, these delays could continue well into the future and have a material adverse effect on the ability of our company and others to manufacture and ship their electronic products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or communications modules could delay shipments of our products or increase our production costs. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any contractual penalties we negotiate for the event that a supplier does not meet its obligations with respect to timeliness and quality may fail to mitigate the harm to our business caused by any such contractual breaches. Our business depends on our ability to develop new products and technologies and a failure or delay in successful new product development could reduce our future revenues. Our customers increasingly demand access to a broad range of products and technologies, and we must continue to develop our expertise to design, manufacture and market our products successfully. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including product quality, reliability and timeliness of delivery, accuracy, new product innovation, price competitiveness, technical expertise and development capability, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success therefore depends, to a significant extent, on our development of new products and technologies and our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing requirements. As a result, in addition to enhancing our current product and solutions portfolio, we continually strive to offer new products and design new technologies and software solutions. This requires continued investment in product and technology development to help us maintain or increase our current market position and to allow us to respond to changing customer needs. However, we may be unable to develop or commercialize technological advances and introduce new products in a manner and to an extent sufficient for us to remain competitive within our industry. For example, we may, among other things, lack capacity to invest the required level of human and financial resources necessary to develop these products, commit errors or misjudgments in our planning in these areas or experience difficulties in implementing rollouts. In addition, we may not be able to meet our product development and delivery schedules as a consequence of unforeseen problems during the design or development phases of new product and technology introductions. Some of our new products also require certification or regulatory approval and may not be approved in a timely manner or at all. Delays of this type, or failures to obtain regulatory approval, could negatively affect our reputation and relationship with our customers and lead to delayed or reduced revenues for our products. 18 If we fail to enhance existing products, develop new products or keep pace with developing technology, growth opportunities could be lost or we may lose existing customers. This is especially the case for our Smart Offerings, which have experienced a rapid pace of development. In addition, we have made commitments within some existing contracts with customers, to develop and deliver new products. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we could be subject to contractual penalties or lose the orders altogether. Delays in product development may also lead to a need for greater investments in research, design and development. If we encounter increased costs associated with new product development and product enhancements for which we are unable to realize sufficient revenues, the costs of the related new product development may not be recoverable. Either increased costs of or decreased revenues from newly developed products, or both, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on our information technology systems, including systems provided by third parties to conduct our business. We rely on our own information technology, or IT, systems to manage our business data, communications, computing needs, production and supply chain effectively and efficiently. Our IT systems are used to conduct order entry, order fulfillment, inventory replenishment, e-commerce and other business processes. We also rely on the IT systems provided by third parties, including, in particular, for much of our Wide Area Network and other IT infrastructure. We currently outsource, and in the future we plan to continue to outsource, certain aspects of our technical and communication infrastructure to third parties. Should these systems not operate as intended or any third parties to whom we outsource some of our IT services fail to deliver as expected, our ability to transact business across our international company would be significantly impaired. In addition, our IT systems and those we outsource are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss, hacker attacks, computer systems failure and viruses. The failure of our IT systems to perform as we anticipate, could disrupt our business and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, unforeseen vulnerabilities in our security systems and policies could result in potential data misuse, resulting in damage to our reputation and an adverse effect on our business. Through our global activities, we are exposed to economic, political and other risks and uncertainties, any of which could adversely affect our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are a global company with operations in more than 30 countries on five continents and sales in more than 130 countries. While most of our operations are located in developed countries, we have substantial operations in a number of developing countries and derive revenues from a broad range of countries. In 2011, our sales in Europe, North America and the rest of the world accounted for 49.3%, 29.5% and 21.1% of our revenues, respectively. This geographical diversity of both operations and sales exposes us to a range of risks relating to events that can occur in individual countries or regionally. Risks inherent to the global nature of our operations and which could negatively affect us include: ·local or regional economic downturns, some of which can be severe; ·withholding taxes imposed on dividends and other payments by subsidiaries; 19 ·difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; ·restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions; ·inability to develop successful relationships with local distributors; ·difficulty in staffing and managing our local operations around the world; ·changes in law, regulations or governmental policies in the individual jurisdictions in which we operate, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; ·the expense of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, regulations, trade standards, treaties and technical standards and changes in them, and the risk of liability or the risk of being prohibited from doing business in a jurisdiction arising from any failures to comply with them; ·challenges to our internal policies, oversight and compliance processes and information systems posed by our widely dispersed operations; ·different legal regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; ·exchange controls imposed by various countries and changed from time to time in ways that can be disadvantageous for us; ·nationalization of foreign assets; ·political instability, especially in some of the emerging markets in which we do business; ·local and regional conflicts and unrest; ·import and export duties, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers, or other forms of government protectionism; and ·continued and/or repeated interruption of gas supply by one or more countries or companies producing natural gas. The manifestation of any one or more of these risks could impair our current or future operations in the affected country or countries. While an event of this nature, if contained to one developing country, may not affect us significantly, such an event may trigger more widespread regional or global consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We derive most of our revenues from sales to or for the utility industry, which has been subject to long and unpredictable capital investment and related sales cycles, which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We derive most of our revenues from customers in the utility industry, either directly or through distributors. In our experience, the utility industry worldwide is often subject to long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory review processes that can take several years to complete and can result in unpredictable capital investment cycles. Generally, larger contracts with utilities are granted through competitive tender processes that involve large volumes, require lengthy and complex competitive procurement processes and lead to long and unpredictable sales cycles. Utilities are under increasing economic, political and regulatory pressure to seek bids for their higher-volume purchases in as competitive a process as possible, which can further delay the time necessary to complete the tender process. In addition, in the face of increasing economic pressure, our customers in the utility industry may establish alliances or enter into mergers which may enhance their purchasing power and their ability to command lower prices. In some markets, utilities’ ability to recover the costs of purchasing our products and services is also subject to lengthy and uncertain regulatory proceedings. In addition, utilities’ purchasing decisions are sometimes delayed if they are considering or negotiating major transactions or changes in their businesses or operations that are unrelated to our products. Our revenue development may be materially and adversely affected if these sales cycles lead to delays that we did not anticipate, for which we were unable to plan adequately or that are otherwise disadvantageous to us. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 20 Ongoing instability and volatility in the worldwide financial markets and the euro-zone debt crisis have created uncertainty, which may reduce our customers’ access to financing or reduce their ability or slow their plans to purchase products and services from us. The recent worldwide financial crisis and current weakness in the global economy have resulted in severe and prolonged volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009, leading to lower levels of liquidity and corresponding increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy. In 2011, the euro-zone debt crisis has caused volatility and uncertainty in global financial markets to worsen. These market developments continue to pose a risk to the financial stability and reliability of companies and vendors in our industry. If financial conditions worsen and global credit markets fail to ease or tighten further, many of our customers, some of whom are substantially dependent on credit to finance their own operations, may delay or reduce purchases of our products or services. They also may limit their levels of capital expenditures in a manner that directly or indirectly leads to a reduction, deferral or cancellation of orders placed with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may have difficulty raising capital to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain credit in support of our customer-related security and bonding requirements. All of our long-term debt is scheduled to mature between April 2016 and April 2018. We have incurred virtually all of our long-term debt under a €590 million multicurrency revolving credit and bank guarantee facilities agreement, which we entered into in April 2011 and which we refer to as the RCF, and our €250 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we issued in April 2011 and which we refer to as the Senior Notes. The €450 million multicurrency revolving credit facility and €140 million multicurrency revolving letter of guarantee facility under our RCF each mature in April 2016. The Senior Notes mature in April 2018. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness, or, if we require additional financing in the future, we may not be able to obtain such additional financing, on terms we find attractive or at all. For example, banks may be unwilling to renew our credit facility or extend it on current or similar terms. In addition, some of our customers and potential customers ask us for guarantees, including payment and advance payment guarantees and performance guarantees, or bonds, in each case to cover portions of their potential contract volumes. They may also or alternatively ask us to maintain a certain level of inventory. The experience of the recent uncertainty in worldwide financial markets may lead customers to demand guarantees or bonds covering a larger portion of these contracts or for us to maintain larger amounts of inventory, while at the same time making it may be more difficult for us to obtain favorable terms on the credit necessary to fulfill these demands. If we are unable to obtain the necessary guarantees or bonds, or maintain or finance the necessary level of inventory, we may fail to win these contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 21 We may experience losses resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to effectively manage the customer credit risk to which we are exposed. Our customers may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and liquidations. Payments from our municipal or government controlled customers may be affected by their fiscal position and by austerity measures taken by central governments and as a result, may be uncollectable or significantly delayed. These and other financial problems that may be experienced by our customers, as well as potential financial weakness in our industry and/or worsening economic conditions generally, may increase our risk in extending trade credit to customers. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable from that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our insurance may not compensate us for all or any of such negative effects. Our exposure to counterparty default risk may increase as a result of the ongoing instability and volatility in the worldwide financial markets. One characteristic of the recent financial crisis has been financial institution distress. Depending on the development of the markets, some or all of our current lenders (or any financial institutions from whom we borrow in the future) may be unable to honor their commitments under our RCF for draw-downs or bonds, particularly if they fail or if they are required to set lending limits imposed by their regulators. If this happens with respect to our current lenders, we could be required to seek financing in a credit market that has become less accessible. These developments may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital to refinance our indebtedness, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The counterparties on our interest rate and foreign currency derivative contracts could also default on their obligations, which, to the extent that we are not in a liability position under these contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have undertaken, and may continue to undertake, business in countries subject to EU or U.S. sanctions and embargoes, and we may be unable to prevent possible sales or transfers of our products to countries, governments, entities or persons targeted by EU or U.S. sanctions. The Council of the European Union has adopted restrictions on trade with entities associated with certain jurisdictions, including Council Regulation (EU) No. 961/2010 of October 25, 2010 on restrictive measures against Iran, most recently updated on January 23, 2012, and Council Decision 2010/413/CFSP concerning restrictive measures against Iran, most recently amended by Council Decision 2012/35/CFSP of January 23, 2012. These sanctions regulations, which vary depending on the jurisdiction in question, apply to EU nationals worldwide, including all EU companies. While these sanctions regulations do not apply to subsidiaries of EU companies that are organized under the laws of countries outside the European Union, EU parent companies are nonetheless expected to encourage their subsidiaries to follow these regulations. We have conducted, and continue to conduct, business with entities located in jurisdictions subject to EU sanctions regulations. If we are found to have violated any of these restrictions, we could be subject to fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. 22 The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, and the Office of Export Enforcement of the U.S. Department of Commerce, or OEE, administer certain laws and regulations, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, that impose restrictions upon U.S. companies and persons, or U.S. persons, and, in some contexts, foreign entities and persons, with respect to activities or transactions with certain countries, governments, entities and individuals that are the subject of U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, or Sanctions Targets. U.S. persons are also generally prohibited from facilitating such activities or transactions. Most recently the President of the United States signed Executive Order 13590 (effective November 21, 2011). This order further expands the range of conduct that may be sanctioned by U.S. authorities and, among other things, targets exports that directly contribute to Iran’s ability to develop domestic petroleum resources. We have engaged in business with counterparties, including government-owned or controlled counterparties, in certain countries that are Sanctions Targets, including Iran, Syria and Cuba, and we may continue to do so. However, in February 2012, we decided to not accept any further orders from customers in Iran or with a final destination of Iran. We will finalize deliveries under existing contracts with customers in Iran, with a total sales volume of $8.1 million in strict compliance with applicable law and have scheduled these deliveries to be completed in the third quarter of 2012. In the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we generated revenues from products sold to customers in Iran of $13.0 million, $6.8 million and $21.8 million, respectively, which represent approximately 0.7%, 0.4% and 1.3% respectively, of our total revenues for those periods. In the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we generated revenues from products sold to customers in Sanctions Targets other than Iran of $1.6 million, $2.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Our business with Sanctions Targets consisted mostly of the sale of electricity meters for residential and C&I use until the second quarter of 2010, after which we have ceased selling electricity meters in Iran. We also sell gas metering and utilization products and, to a lesser extent, water meters in Sanctions Targets. We concluded an investigation in March 2010, assisted by external counsel, and submitted, on a voluntary basis, a disclosure report to OFAC and OEE in March 2010 regarding conduct in 2005 through 2007. The report concluded that a U.S. person employed by our U.S. affiliate participated in the settlement of a warranty claim made by one of our Iranian customers against two of our European operating units, which may implicate certain of the U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We also described in our voluntary disclosure to OFAC and OEE our sales of certain products to counterparties in Iran and Syria with de minimis U.S.-origin content. The file relating to our voluntary disclosure report was closed by the OEE in July 2010 and by OFAC in November 2011, and in each case we were notified by the respective agency that no further action would be taken. In October 2007, we implemented enhancements to our compliance and training programs and procedures designed to ensure that, across all our operations globally, no sales to Sanctions Targets would occur of products containing more than a de minimis level of U.S. content (or any level of U.S. content in circumstances where no U.S. content is permissible) and that U.S. persons among our employees would have no involvement in business with Sanctions Targets. Despite these enhancements and our other efforts designed to ensure compliance with applicable sanctions laws and embargoes, it remains possible that our products could be sold or transferred to countries, governments, entities or persons targeted by EU or U.S. sanctions in a manner that violates such sanctions. For example, despite our procedures, one of our businesses may miscalculate the level of U.S.-origin content in a product or transfer a U.S.-origin product to a customer that we should have known was subject to U.S. or EU sanctions. Should such sales or transfers occur, we would bear the costs of any necessary investigative and remedial measures that may be necessary, and could be subject to fines or criminal penalties in respect of such sales or transfers. 23 In addition to the sanctions administered by OFAC and OEE described above, the U.S. government may impose (and has in the past imposed from time to time) restrictions and sanctions against other countries, including ones in which we do business. In addition, the U.S. government may impose new or expanded restrictions and sanctions against existing Sanctions Targets. Any such measures targeting countries in which we undertake business could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. Certain U.S. state and municipal governments, universities and institutional investors have proposed or adopted divestment initiatives regarding investments in companies doing business with Iran and other Sanctions Targets. If our business activities regarding Iran or other Sanctions Targets were deemed to fall within the scope of such initiatives, then such investors holding interests in us may sell these interests. If significant, these sales could have adverse effects on our business or the price of our ADSs. A number of skilled personnel are critical to the success of our business, and any inability to attract and retain employees with skills in our areas of focus, or industrial action by our employees generally, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our success depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, develop and retain skilled personnel throughout our company. Competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel is intensifying as our industry becomes more technologically advanced. While we believe that we have a good relationship with our management and other key employees, and while we have developed a long-term incentive compensation plan that was implemented shortly after our IPO, we may not be able to retain key executives or other skilled personnel, or attract and retain replacements for those who may decide to leave our company. In certain strategic focus areas, such as Smart Grid technologies, we intend to make significant investments and further develop our product portfolio. The successful development of our business in these strategic areas depends in part on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified and skilled personnel. We are also dependent on the remainder of our workforce to respond effectively to customer requests, and industrial actions could negatively impact our ability to respond effectively, especially for larger, more complex rollouts that encompass a broad range of our products and services. Any such industrial actions, along with any inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may be unable to implement our business and cost reduction strategies, including our reinvestment program. Our future financial performance and success largely depend on our ability to implement our business strategies successfully. In early 2012, our Administrative Board authorized a reinvestment program, which is intended to position us to take advantage of growth opportunities associated with global gasification trends and Smart Grid deployments in Europe, as well as further optimize operational efficienies. We plan to initiate measures, beginning in the first quarter of 2012, to pursue this strategy, which are expected to include adapting our manufacturing footprint to create scalable regional core production centers and driving further efficiency across our segments. Key elements include consolidating operations and sites mainly in the United States and in Europe, relocating product-lines and increasing our mix of production in low-cost countries, which are intended to result in an optimization of our cost structure. Planned actions include the closure of four major facilities and the reduction of the number of our small- and mid-sized facilities. For further information see “