ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe are dependent on Sun until we substantially diversify our portfolio, and an event that has a material adverse effect on Sun's business, financial position or results of operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Subsidiaries of Sun are currently the lessees of 86 of our 97 properties (with Sun guaranteeing the obligations under these lease agreements) and, therefore, a significant source of our revenues. There can be no assurance that Sun and its subsidiaries will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment obligations under their lease agreements. The inability of Sun and its subsidiaries to meet their rent obligations would materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders as required to maintain our status as a REIT. The inability of Sun and its subsidiaries to satisfy their other obligations under their lease agreements such as the payment of taxes, insurance and utilities could have a material adverse effect on the condition of the leased properties as well as on our business, financial position and results of operations. For these reasons, if Sun were to experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations, our business, financial position or results of operations would also be materially adversely affected. Due to our dependence on rental payments from Sun and its subsidiaries as a significant source of revenues, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these lease agreements or to terminate a lease thereunder. Failure by Sun and its subsidiaries to comply with the terms of their lease agreements or to comply with the healthcare regulations to which the leased properties and Sun's operations are subject could require us to find other lessees for any affected leased properties and there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments by Sun and its subsidiaries. In such event, we may be unable to locate suitable replacement lessees willing to pay similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues. We are dependent on the operating success of our tenants.Our tenants' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and private pay rates. Revenues from government reimbursement have been, and may continue to be, subject to rate cuts and further pressure from federal and state budgetary cuts and constraints. Overall weak economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect occupancy rates of healthcare facilities that rely on private pay residents. Our tenants' expenses are driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. To the extent any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses results in our tenants' not generating enough cash to make scheduled lease payments to us, or if a tenant is subject to bankruptcy or insolvency, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.We have substantial indebtedness and the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, our indebtedness consisted of $225.0 million of 8.125% senior notes due 2018 (the “Senior Notes”) and aggregate mortgage indebtedness to third parties of $157.9 million on certain of our properties. In addition, we had $100.0 million available for borrowing under our secured revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2011, which availability increased to $200 million following the amendment of our secured revolving credit facility on February 10, 2012. Our high level of indebtedness may have the following important consequences to us: •It may become more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations (including ongoing interest payments and, where applicable, scheduled amortization payments) with respect to the Senior Notes and our other debt; •It may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; •It may increase our cost of borrowing; •It may limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and we may be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare sectors; •It may place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and •It may require us to sell assets and properties at an inopportune time. 13Table of Contents In addition, the indenture governing the Senior Notes permits us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt (to which the Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated). If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under our secured revolving credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our secured revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In particular, our secured revolving credit facility will mature prior to the maturity of the Senior Notes. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our activities and could adversely affect our business. Our debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes and our secured revolving credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including: •Incurring additional secured and unsecured debt; •Paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock; •Making investments or other restricted payments; •Entering into transactions with affiliates; •Issuing stock of or interests in restricted subsidiaries; •Engaging in non-healthcare related business activities; •Creating restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us; •Selling assets; or •Effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial covenants, which include a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum tangible net worth ratio, as well as satisfy other financial condition tests. The indenture governing the Senior Notes requires us to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. Our secured revolving credit facility also allows for the lenders thereunder to conduct periodic appraisals of our owned properties that secure such facility, and if the appraised values were to decline in the future, the amount that can be borrowed under such facility would be decreased unless we pledge additional assets as collateral. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for our existing debt and any new debt. This increased cost could 14Table of Contents make the financing of any acquisition more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the access third parties have to credit, thereby decreasing the amount they are willing to pay for our assets, and consequently limit our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our ability to raise capital through equity financings is dependent, in part, on the market price of our common stock, which depends on market conditions and other factors affecting REITs generally.Our ability to raise capital through equity financings depends, in part, on the market price of our common stock, which in turn depends on fluctuating market conditions and other factors including the following:•the reputation of REITs and attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison with other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies;•our financial performance and that of our tenants;•concentrations in our investment portfolio by tenant and facility type;•concerns about our tenants' financial condition due to uncertainty regarding reimbursement from governmental and other third-party payor programs;•the contents of analyst reports about us and the REIT industry;•changes in interest rates on fixed-income securities, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher annual yield from investments in our common stock;•maintaining or increasing our dividend, which is determined by our board of directors and depends on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements, debt covenants (which include limits on distributions by us), applicable law, and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant; and•regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws.The market value of a REIT's equity securities is generally based upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. If we fail to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions, the market price of our common stock could decline and our ability to raise capital through equity financings could be materially adversely affected.Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties. Our tenants are operators of skilled nursing and other healthcare facilities, which operators must be licensed under applicable state law and, depending upon the type of facility, certified or approved as providers under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Prior to the transfer of the operations of such healthcare properties to successor operators, the new operator generally must become licensed under state law and, in certain states, receive change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws (which laws provide for a certification that the state has made a determination that a need exists for the beds located on the applicable property). If applicable, Medicare and Medicaid provider approvals may be needed as well. In the event that an existing lease is terminated or expires and a new tenant is found, then any delays in the new tenant receiving regulatory approvals from the applicable federal, state or local government agencies, or the inability of such tenant to receive such approvals, may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. Our tenants depend on reimbursement from governmental and other third-party payor programs, and reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced.Our tenants depend on third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid or private third-party payors, for the majority of their revenue. The reduction in reimbursement rates from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid programs, or other measures reducing reimbursements for services provided by our tenants, has resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduction in our tenants' revenues and operating margins. In addition, reimbursement from private third-party payors may be reduced as a result of retroactive adjustment during a claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Furthermore, new legislative and regulatory proposals could impose additional limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by our tenants. Although moderate reimbursement rate reductions may not affect our tenants' ability to meet their financial obligations to us, significant limits on reimbursement rates or on the services reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position or results of operations, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial obligations to us.For example, on July 29, 2011, CMS released its final rule regarding 2012 Medicare payment rates for skilled nursing facilities, which became effective October 1, 2011. Based on the final rule, the net reduction in fiscal year 2012 Medicare reimbursement rates for skilled nursing facilities will be 11.1%. On January 4, 2012, Sun issued a press release announcing its 15Table of Contents 2012 financial outlook and guidance, in which Sun stated that it expected the net impact of the final rule in 2012 to be between $40 million to $45 million after mitigation strategies were implemented to partially offset the impact of the CMS final rule. Based on Sun's expected 2012 consolidated EBITDAR (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent) of between $222.0 million and $228.0 million and expected consolidated rents across all of its facilities totaling $148.0 million, Sun's expected 2012 consolidated EBITDAR coverage would be between 1.50x and 1.54x (Sun's expected 2012 consolidated EBITDAR coverage would be between 1.46x and 1.50x before eliminating assets Sun expects to transition to held for sale status in 2012). In addition to Sun, other tenants have undertaken cost and patient mix mitigation activities intended to partially offset the impact of the CMS final rule. If Sun and our other skilled nursing facility tenants are unable to mitigate the impact of the CMS final rule as expected, this may have an adverse impact on their business and financial results, which will adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations if they are unable to timely make their rental payments to us.We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some and potentially substantially all of our properties serve as collateral for our current and future secured debt obligations and cannot readily be sold unless the underlying mortgage indebtedness is concurrently repaid. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. A downturn in the real estate market could materially adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for acceptable prices or on other acceptable terms. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. Further, because Sabra owns appreciated assets that were held before Sabra elected to be treated as a REIT, if Sabra sells any such property in a taxable transaction within the ten-year period following Sabra's qualification as a REIT, Sabra will generally be subject to corporate tax on that gain to the extent of the built-in gain in that property at the time Sabra became a REIT. The amount of corporate tax that Sabra would pay will vary depending on the actual amount of net built-in gain or loss present in those assets as of the time Sabra became a REIT. As of January 1, 2011, the built-in-gains tax associated with our properties totaled approximately $145.8 million assuming a 40% corporate tax rate. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult for us to identify and purchase suitable healthcare properties. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger than us and have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition makes it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Mr. Matros, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of Mr. Matros, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We have a limited number of employees and, accordingly, the loss of any one of our employees could harm our operations. As of December 31, 2011, we employed seven full-time employees, including our executive officers. Accordingly, the impact we may feel from the loss of one of our full-time employees may be greater than the impact such a loss would have on a larger organization. While it is anticipated that we could find replacements for our personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations, at least in the short term. Potential litigation and rising insurance costs may affect our tenants' ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and their ability to make lease payments and fulfill their insurance and indemnification obligations to us.Our tenants may be subject to lawsuits filed by advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities or by patients, facility residents or their families. Significant damage awards are possible in cases where neglect has been found. This litigation has increased our tenants' costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care and has resulted in increases in the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance. These increased costs may materially adversely affect our tenants' ability to 16Table of Contents obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance; manage related risk exposures; fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases; or make lease payments to us.We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expenses. While our lease agreements require that comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance be maintained by the tenants, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace properties after they have been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to a damaged property. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. As an owner of real property, we or our subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Although we do not operate or manage our properties, we or our subsidiaries may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property where there has been a release or threatened release of a hazardous regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed an affected property's value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws provide for the creation of a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government as security for damages and any costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination and associated clean-up. Although we require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or could cause us to delay the filing of required reports with the SEC and our reporting of financial results. Any of these events could result in a decline in the price of shares of our common stock. An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses could inhibit a change of control of Sabra or reduce the value of our stock. Certain provisions of Maryland law and of our charter and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect. The following provisions of Maryland law and these governing documents could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Sabra, including certain acquisitions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests: •Our charter contains transfer and ownership restrictions on the percentage by number and value of outstanding shares of our stock that may be owned or acquired by any stockholder; •Our charter permits the issuance of one or more classes or series of preferred stock with rights and preferences to be determined by the board of directors and permits our board of directors, without stockholder action, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue; •“Business combination” provisions of Maryland law, subject to certain limitations, impose a moratorium on business combinations with “interested stockholders” or affiliates thereof for five years and thereafter impose additional requirements on such business combinations; •Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations; and •Our bylaws may be amended only by our board of directors. Risks Associated with Our Status as a REIT17Table of Contents We could fail to qualify as a REIT if income we receive is not treated as qualifying income, including as a result of one or more of the lease agreements we have entered into or assumed (as well as any other leases we enter into or assume) not being characterized as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to U.S. federal income tax at corporate tax rates.Under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the lease agreements we have entered into or assumed (as well as any other leases we enter into or assume) are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are instead treated as service contracts, joint ventures, loans or some other type of arrangement. In the event that the lease agreements entered into with Sun are not characterized as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we likely would fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, rents received by us from Sun will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we are treated, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules, as owning 10% or more of Sun common stock. We will be treated as owning, under the applicable attribution rules, 10% or more of Sun common stock at any time that a stockholder owns, directly or under the applicable attribution rules, (a) 10% or more of our common stock and (b) 10% or more of Sun common stock. The provisions of our charter restrict the transfer and ownership of our common stock that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from Sun (or any other tenant of ours) to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that we will not be treated as related to Sun (or any other tenant of ours). If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate tax rates, which would decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our common stock.Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially hinder our performance.To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy certain tests, including tests concerning the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments or acquisitions we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may materially hinder our performance.If we have significant amounts of non-cash taxable income, we may have to declare taxable stock dividends or make other non-cash distributions, which could cause our stockholders to incur tax liabilities in excess of cash received.We currently intend to pay dividends in cash only, and not in-kind. However, if for any taxable year, we have significant amounts of taxable income in excess of available cash flow, we may have to declare dividends in-kind in order to satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirements. We may distribute a portion of our dividends in the form of our stock or our debt instruments. In either event, a holder of our common stock will be required to report dividend income as a result of such distributions even though we distributed no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder.Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2010-12, a recent revenue procedure issued by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), the IRS has indicated that it will treat distributions from certain publicly traded REITs that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock (through 2011) at the election of each stockholder as dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirements and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we make such a distribution, U.S. holders would be required to include the full amount of the dividend (i.e., the cash and stock portion) as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. holder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. holder sells our stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. holders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, these sales may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.Further, because IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-12 only applies through 2011, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and/or stock in later years. Moreover, various tax aspects of a taxable dividend payable in cash and/or stock are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable dividends payable in cash and/or stock, including 18Table of Contents on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable dividends have not been met.Our charter restricts the transfer and ownership of our stock, which may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT for each taxable year after 2011, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, direct, indirect and constructive ownership of more than 9.9% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common stock or more than 9.9% in value of our outstanding stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. The ownership limits may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors.We could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gains in the assets held before electing to be treated as a REIT.We own appreciated assets that were held before we elected to be treated as a REIT. If such appreciated assets are disposed of in a gain recognition transaction within the 10-year period following our qualification as a REIT, we will generally be subject to corporate tax on that gain to the extent of the built-in gain in those assets at the time we became a REIT. The total amount of gain on which we can be taxed is limited to our net built-in gain at the time we became a REIT, i.e., the excess of the aggregate fair market value of our assets at the time we became a REIT over the adjusted tax bases of those assets at that time. We would be subject to this tax liability even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and our distribution requirement. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. We may choose not to dispose of appreciated assets we might otherwise dispose of during the 10-year period in which the built-in gain tax applies in order to avoid the built-in gain tax. However, there can be no assurances that such a disposition will not occur. If we dispose of such assets in a gain recognition transaction, the amount of corporate tax that we will pay will vary depending on the actual amount of net built-in gain or loss present in those assets as of the effective time of our REIT election. The amount of tax could be significant.We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could materially adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed.Our failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of our common stock and would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.We believe that we are organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Code, and we believe we have operated in a manner that will enable us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT commencing with our taxable year beginning on January 1, 2011. However, we cannot assure you that we will qualify and remain qualified as a REIT. Moreover, our qualification and taxation as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual annual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the U.S. federal tax laws. Accordingly, given the complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the potential tax treatment of investments we make, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that our actual results of operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements.If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local tax), including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income (although such dividends received by certain non-corporate U.S. taxpayers generally would be subject to a preferential rate of taxation through December 31, 2012). Further, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required under U.S. federal tax laws to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under U.S. federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify.19Table of Contents Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders taxed at individual rates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2012. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends treated as qualified dividend income, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.Our ownership of and relationship with any taxable REIT subsidiaries that we have formed or will form will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation (other than a REIT) of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns securities possessing more than 35% of the total voting power or total value of the outstanding securities of such corporation will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's total assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A domestic TRS will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. Any domestic TRS that we have formed or may form will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us unless necessary to maintain our REIT qualification.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable. 