Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in common shares of Equal would be subject to certain risks. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors set out below and consider all other information contained herein and in Equal’s other public filings, including those incorporated by reference into this annual report. In order to mitigate these risks, Equal has qualified technical and financial personnel. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to Equal’s management may also have an adverse effect on Equal’s business and the information set out below does not purport to be an exhaustive summary of the risks affecting Equal. Risks Relating to the Arrangement Completion of the Arrangement is subject to several conditions that must be satisfied or waived. The completion of the Arrangement is subject to a number of conditions precedent, some of which are outside of the control of Equal, Petroflow and Petroflow Sub, including approval of the Equal Shareholders and the granting of the final order of the Alberta Courts approving the Arrangement. There can be no certainty, nor can Equal, Petroflow or Petroflow Sub provide any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or, if satisfied, when they will be satisfied. Moreover, a substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals could result in the Arrangement not being completed. If the Arrangement is not completed for any reason, there are risks that the announcement of the Arrangement and the dedication of substantial resources of Equal to the completion thereof could have a negative impact on Equal’s current business relationships and could have a material adverse effect on the current and future operations, financial condition and prospects of Equal. In addition, failure to complete the Arrangement for any reason could materially negatively impact the trading price of the Equal Shares. The Arrangement Agreement may be terminated by Petroflow or Petroflow Sub, in which case an alternative transaction may not be available. Petroflow and Petroflow Sub have the right to terminate the Arrangement Agreement in certain circumstances. Accordingly, there is no certainty that the Arrangement Agreement will not be terminated by Petroflow or Petroflow Sub before the completion of the Arrangement. If the Arrangement Agreement is terminated, there is no guarantee that an equivalent or greater purchase prices for the Equal Shares will be available from an alternative party. Equal will incur costs and may have to pay a termination payment. Certain costs relating to the Arrangement, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisor fees, must be paid by Equal even if the Arrangement is not completed. If the Arrangement is not completed, Equal may also be required to pay a termination payment to Petroflow. If Equal is required to pay a termination payment under the Arrangement Agreement, the financial condition of Equal could be materially adversely affected. The termination may discourage other parties from proposing a significant business transaction with Equal. Under the Arrangement, Equal is required to pay a termination payment in the event that the Arrangement Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. The termination payment may discourage other parties from attempting to propose a business transaction, even if such a transaction could provide better value to Equal Shareholders than the Arrangement. Gains from the Arrangement may be subject to tax. Gains from the Arrangement may be taxable to Equal Shareholders for U.S. federal and Canadian income tax purposes as may any gains from any proceeding arising from an assertion of Dissent Rights. 15 Table of Contents The transaction may result in disruption to Equal’s business. Our business may be disrupted by the transactions contemplated by the Arrangement Agreement, including the possible effect on our ability to attract and retain key personnel that may result from the announcement of the proposed Arrangement and the resulting distraction of the attention of our management and employees. The Arrangement Agreement imposes interim restrictions on our business. Pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, Equal has agreed to certain interim operating provisions intended to ensure that Equal and our subsidiaries carry on business in the ordinary course consistent with past practices. These operating provisions cover a broad range of activities and business practices. Consequently, it is possible that a business opportunity will arise that is out of the ordinary course or is not consistent with past practices, and that Equal will not be able to pursue or undertake the opportunity due to our covenants in the Arrangement Agreement. Risks Relating to Equal If the Arrangement is not completed, Equal will continue to face the risks that we currently face with respect to our affairs, business and operations and future prospects. Such risk factors are set forth below. An investment in a company engaged in oil and gas exploration involves a high amount of risk, unknown and known, present and potential, including the risks enumerated below. An investment in our Common shares is speculative and subject to a number of known and unknown risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should purchase our securities. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that we file with the SEC and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones we face, as additional risks that we are not currently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may become important factors that affect our business. The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other filings with the SEC and Canadian securities regulators, may have a significant effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. See “Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this Form 10-K. Our failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common shares may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or other unknown risks that may affect our business. If we are unable to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which will adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price and could eventually result in us having to cease operations. The long-term commercial success of Equal depends on our ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas reserves. Without the continual addition of new reserves, our production will decline over time as existing reserves are exploited. A future increase in our reserves will depend not only on our ability to explore and develop any properties we may have from time to time, but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to discover additional commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, if we are unable to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation, or if we determine that current markets, terms of acquisition or pricing conditions make such acquisitions or participations uneconomic, we will be unable to replace our reserves and our production will decline over time, which would affect our business, financial results and stock price, and could eventually result in our company ceasing operations. Oil and gas exploration, development and production operations have a high degree of risk, and realization of the associated risks could adversely affect our business or result in increased costs or liability. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with such operations, including hazards such as fire, explosion, blowouts, cratering, sour gas releases and spills, each of which could result in substantial damage to oil and natural gas wells, production facilities, other property and the environment or personal injury. In particular, Equal could explore for and produce sour natural gas in certain areas. An unintentional leak of sour natural gas could result in personal injury, loss of life or damage to property and may necessitate an evacuation of populated areas, all of which could result in liability to the Company. 16 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, Equal is not fully insured against all of these risks, as not all such risks are insurable. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities, if insured against, could exceed insurance policy limits in which event Equal could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. Oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all the risks typically associated with such operations, including encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations, the occurrence of any of which could result in significant costs for Equal. Future oil and natural gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient petroleum substances to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, insufficient storage or transportation capacity or other geological and mechanical conditions. Production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. While we currently operate approximately 99% of our production, we do not operate all of the assets in which we have an interest and could enter into material non-operator positions in the future, and we therefore cannot ensure that those assets, or potential assets, will be operated in a manner favorable to us. Other companies operate a small portion of the assets in which we have an interest. As a result, Equal has limited ability to exercise influence over the operation of these assets or their associated costs. The limited scope of these assets makes it unlikely they could adversely affect our financial performance. Equal’s return on assets operated by others depends upon a number of factors that may be outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator’s expertise and financial resources, the approval of other participants, the selection of technology and risk management practices. Our ability to successfully execute projects and market oil and natural gas depends upon factors beyond our control, and as a result of these factors we might not be able to execute projects on time, on budget or at all, and we might not be able to effectively market our oil and natural gas. Equal manages a variety of small and large projects in the conduct of our business. Project delays may delay expected revenues from operations. Significant project cost over-runs could make a project uneconomic. Our ability to execute projects and market oil and natural gas depends upon numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including: • the availability of processing capacity; • the availability and proximity of pipeline capacity; • operational risks associated with pipelines and processing facilities; • the availability of storage capacity; • the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • the effects of inclement weather and natural disasters; • the availability of drilling and related equipment; • unexpected cost increases; • accidental events; • currency fluctuations; • changes in regulations; • the availability and productivity of skilled labor; and • the regulation of the oil and natural gas industry by various levels of government and governmental agencies. Because of these factors, Equal might not be able to execute projects on time, on budget or at all, and may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that we produce. 17 Table of Contents Oil, Natural Gas and NGL prices are volatile, and a sustained price drop would have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, and our borrowing capacity, revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. The marketability and price of oil and natural gas that may be acquired or discovered by Equal is and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Equal’s ability to market our oil and natural gas may depend upon our ability to acquire space on pipelines that deliver natural gas to commercial markets. Equal may also be affected by deliverability uncertainties related to the proximity of our reserves to pipelines and processing and storage facilities and operational problems affecting such pipelines and facilities as well as extensive government regulation relating to price, taxes, royalties, allowable production, the export of oil and natural gas and many other aspects of the oil and natural gas business. Equal’s revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of oil and gas. Our ability to borrow and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and gas prices. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include economic conditions in the United States, Canada, the actions of the OPEC and Russia, governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign imports and the availability of alternative fuel sources. Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. In addition, bank borrowings available to Equal are in part determined by our borrowing base. A sustained material decline in prices from historical average prices could reduce Equal’s borrowing base, therefore reducing the bank credit available to us which could require that a portion, or all, of our bank debt be repaid. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and gas would have an adverse effect on Equal’s carrying value of our proved reserves, borrowing capacity, revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. We anticipate making substantial capital expenditures for future acquisition, exploration, development and production projects. We might not be able to obtain capital or financing necessary to support these projects on satisfactory terms, or at all. Equal anticipates making substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future. If our revenues or reserves decline, it may limit our ability to expend or access the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. Debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations, might not be available to us or might not be sufficient to meet our requirements for capital expenditures or for other corporate purposes. Even if debt or equity financing is available, it might not be available on terms acceptable to us. The inability of Equal to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market events and conditions witnessed over the past several years, including disruptions in the international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of global economic conditions, have caused significant volatility in commodity prices. Equal could face restricted access to capital and increased borrowing costs, which would have an adverse effect on the Company, as our ability to make future capital expenditures is dependent upon, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investments in the energy industry generally and Equal’s securities in particular. We could be required to raise capital in order to fund our operations. We might not be able to obtain capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. Equal’s cash flow from our producing reserves might not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we might require additional financing in order to carry out our acquisition, exploration and development activities. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause the Company to forfeit our interest in certain properties, miss certain acquisition opportunities and reduce or terminate our operations. If revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, it will affect Equal’s ability to expend 18 Table of Contents the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our production. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, additional debt or equity financing might not be available to meet these requirements or be available on satisfactory terms. We may issue indebtedness in connection with acquisitions, which would increase the amount of outstanding indebtedness and increase the amount of cash used for debt service, and could affect our ability to incur future indebtedness or take advantage of business opportunities. From time to time, Equal might enter into transactions to acquire assets or the shares of other entities. These transactions may be financed partially or wholly with debt, which could increase our debt levels above industry standards for oil and natural gas companies of similar size. Depending on future exploration and development plans, Equal could require additional debt financing that might not be available or, if available, might not be available on favorable terms. Neither the articles of the Company nor our by-laws limit the amount of indebtedness that the Company may incur. The level of the Company’s indebtedness from time to time could impair our ability to obtain additional financing on a timely basis to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise and could negatively affect the Company’s debt ratings. This in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our exploration and development activities could be delayed if drilling and related equipment is unavailable or if access to drilling locations is restricted. These events could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. Oil and natural gas exploration and development activities depend upon the availability of drilling and related equipment (typically leased from third parties) in the particular areas where such activities will be conducted. Demand for such limited equipment or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to the Company and may delay exploration and development activities. To the extent we are not the operator of our oil and gas properties, the Company will be dependent on such operators for the timing of activities related to such properties and will be largely unable to direct or control the activities of the operators. We are exposed to potential liabilities that may not be covered, in whole or in part, by insurance. Equal’s involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and natural gas properties may result in the Company becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although prior to conducting drilling and other field activities the Company will obtain insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, all such risks may not be insurable or, in certain circumstances, the Company may elect not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to us. The occurrence of a significant event that Equal is not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or prospects. Our operation of oil and natural gas wells, and our participation in oil and natural gas wells operated by others, could subject us to environmental claims and liability and/or increased compliance costs, all of which could affect the market price of our common shares and reduce the amount of cash available to run our business. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of international conventions and international, national, provincial, state and local law and regulation. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach of same can result in the imposition of clean-up orders, civil liability for pollution damage, and the imposition of fines and/or penalties, some of which may be material, as well as possible forfeiture of requisite approval obtained from the various governmental authorities. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and legal liability, and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Our exploration and production facilities and other operations and activities emit greenhouse gases and require us to comply with 19 Table of Contents greenhouse gas emissions legislation. The direct or indirect costs of these regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The discharge of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions, oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. If we are not in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, it could result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See “Risk Factors”. Equal’s current Hunton production, and future development, depends on our ability to dispose of produced water by injection into water disposal wells. Regulatory actions that would limit our ability to economically dispose of produced water would have a material adverse effect on our production and cash flow. We could incur material expenses complying with new or amended laws and regulations governing climate change. The future implementation or modification of greenhouse gases or other environmental regulations could have a material impact on the nature of oil and natural gas operations, including those conducted by us, and could result in increased direct and indirect costs for us. Given the evolving nature of the debate related to climate change and the control of greenhouse gases and resulting requirements, it is not currently possible to predict either the nature of those requirements or the impact on us and our operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could adversely affect our business, and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Equal conducts business and operations in the United States and is therefore also exposed to foreign currency risk on any costs incurred in Canadian dollars to the extent the value of the Canadian dollar increases relative to the United States dollar. An increase in interest rates could result in a significant increase in the amount we pay to refinance or service future borrowings, resulting in a decrease in the cash available to fund our operations. We may be unable to successfully compete with other companies in our industry, which could negatively affect the market price of our common shares. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Equal actively competes for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses and concessions, access to equipment, markets, transportation capacity, drilling, service rigs and processing facilities, production and development of oil and natural gas properties, skilled industry personnel, and the capital to finance such activities, with a substantial number of other oil and gas companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and personnel resources than we have. Equal’s competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous other independent oil and natural gas companies and individual producers and operators. Certain of our customers and potential customers could directly, or indirectly, be exploring for oil and gas, and the results of such exploration efforts could affect the Company’s ability to sell or supply oil or gas to these customers in the future. The Company’s ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional property rights, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers depends upon developing and maintaining close working relationships with our future industry partners and joint operators and our ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. As a result of increasing competition, it has become (and the Company expects it to continue to be) more difficult to acquire producing assets and reserves on accretive terms. Our production is sold to a limited number of customers, and their inability to accept our production would have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our production of oil and natural gas is sold to a limited number of customers and the inability to accept our production due to capacity constraints, or a credit default of one of these customers, could have a temporary adverse effect on us. Our revenues are generated under contracts with a limited number of customers. In 2013, approximately 90% of Equal’s revenues were derived from Scissortail Energy, LLC (a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan). Other 20 Table of Contents customers include DCP Midstream, LP and Phillips 66 Company. Our operations and cash flow would be adversely affected as a result of non-performance or payment default by any of our customers, but Equal’s operations and cash flows are especially reliant upon Scissortail’s ability to process and pay for the contracted production. We depend upon our management and other key personnel, and the loss of one or more of such individuals could negatively affect our business. We have disclosed material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. Equal’s success depends in large measure on certain key personnel. The Company does not have key personnel insurance in effect for management. The contributions of these individuals to our immediate operations are likely to be of central importance. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the oil and natural gas industry is intense and if we are unable to attract and retain all personnel necessary for the development and operation of its business, we could be unable to successfully operate the business. Investors must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of the Company’s management. Management has concluded that as of December 31, 2013, we had not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Although, as disclosed in Item 9A in this annual report on Form 10-K, we are in the process of adopting measures to remediate the material weaknesses related to the fact that we did not maintain sufficient accounting resources with adequate training and relevant experience commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. There is also an inherent risk that we may not be able to hire qualified accounting and financial reporting personnel. While considerable actions will be undertaken to improve our internal controls in response to the material weaknesses identified, if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Any failure to remedy our material weaknesses or any additional errors or delays in our financial reporting, whether or not resulting from a failure to remedy our identified material weaknesses and deficiencies that resulted in the prior period financial statement revisions within this current 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could have a substantial adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Our operations require permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary leases and permits that might be required to carry out exploration and development at our projects. Equal’s properties are held in the form of working interests in leases. If the Company or the holder of the lease fails to meet the specific requirements, the lease may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each lease will be met. The termination or expiration of the Company’s leases or the working interests relating to a lease, or the inability of the Company to obtain or maintain necessary permits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to conduct our business. Our profitability depends upon the level of royalties and production taxes that we pay, and the availability to us of incentives provided by the State of Oklahoma and the federal government In addition to federal regulations, Oklahoma has legislation and regulations which govern production taxes, production rates, environmental protection and other matters. Royalties payable on production are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee. If production taxes are increased, or if Oklahoma does not make available to us current production tax credits, our profitability will be negatively affected. If we are unable to renew our land leases on satisfactory terms, our operations will be adversely affected. Oil and natural gas lands located in Oklahoma are generally privately owned and rights to explore for and produce such oil and natural gas are granted by lease on such terms and conditions as may be negotiated. In general, the term of most leases is three years. Once a productive well is established on the lands the land is held by production for as long as the subject well is consistently producing. If we are unable to renew our land leases, we will be unable to operate our business as it is currently being conducted. 21 Table of Contents The ability of residents of the United States to enforce civil remedies against us and our directors and officers may be limited. Equal is incorporated under the ABCA and the chief executive officer, who is also a director, and three other of the Company’s directors are residents of Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or upon our directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments against the Company’s current or future non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under United States federal or state securities laws. Furthermore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws in a Canadian court against the Company or any of the Company’s non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors. There is substantial doubt whether an original lawsuit could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. Actual reserves will vary from reserve estimates and those variations could be material and negatively affect the market price of our common shares There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and cash flow to be derived therefrom, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve, recovery and associated revenue information contained in the Haas Report are only estimates and the actual production and ultimate reserves from our properties may be greater or less than the estimates prepared in such reports. The Reserve Reports have been prepared using certain commodity price assumptions which are described in the notes to the reserve tables in this Form 10-K. If lower prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas are realized by the Company and substituted for the price assumptions utilized in the Reserve Reports, the present value of estimated future net cash flows for the Company’s reserves would be reduced and the reduction could be significant, particularly to those cases which are based on a constant price assumption. Exploration for oil and natural gas involves many risks, which even a combination of experience and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. There is no assurance that further commercial quantities of oil and natural gas will be discovered by the Company. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net revenue therefrom are based up a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as: • historical production from the properties; • estimated production decline rates; • estimated ultimate reserve recovery; • timing and amount and effectiveness of future capital expenditures; • marketability and price of oil and natural gas; • production tax rates; • the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • future operating costs; all of which may vary from actual results. As a result, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary. Our actual production, revenues and development and operating expenditures will vary from reserve estimates thereof and such variations could be material. Estimates of proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are sometimes based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history and production practices will result in variations in the estimated reserves and such variations could be material. In accordance with applicable securities laws, Haas, a third party engineering firm, has used constant price and cost estimates in calculating reserve quantities included herein. Actual future net revenue will be affected by other factors including but not limited to actual production levels, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulation or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs. Actual production and revenue derived from reserves will vary from the reserve estimates contained in the Haas Report, and such variations could be material. The Haas Report is based in part upon the assumption that certain 22 Table of Contents activities will be undertaken by us in future years and the further assumption that such activities will be successful. The reserves and estimated revenue to be derived therefrom contained in the Haas Report will be reduced in future years to the extent that such activities are not undertaken or, if undertaken, do not achieve the level of success assumed in the Haas Report. Future acquisitions, financings or other transactions may result in shareholder dilution. Equal Energy may make future acquisitions or enter into financing or other transactions involving the issuance of securities of Equal, which could be dilutive to shareholders of the Company. Payment of dividends on our Common shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. On November 27, 2012, Equal announced the initiation of a $0.20 per share annual dividend beginning January 1, 2013 payable quarterly at the end of each calendar quarter. The Company paid the quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share at the end of each calendar quarter of 2013. As a result of the terms of the Arrangement Agreement with Petroflow, Equal will not pay a dividend in the first quarter of 2014. However, payment of dividends on Equal’s common shares in the future will depend upon, among other things, execution of the Arrangement Agreement, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition of Equal and the need for funds to finance ongoing operations and other business considerations as Equal’s Board of Directors considers relevant. The failure of third parties to meet their contractual obligations to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Equal is exposed to third party credit risk through our contractual arrangements with our current or future joint venture partners, third party operators, marketers of our petroleum and natural gas production and other parties. In the event such entities fail to meet their contractual obligations to the Company, such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company and our cash flow from operations. In addition, poor credit conditions in the industry and of joint venture partners may impact a joint venture partner’s willingness to participate in our ongoing capital program, potentially delaying the program and the results of such program until we find a suitable alternative partner. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of future potential acquisitions and the integration of any acquisitions might result in the loss of key employees and the disruption of on-going business relationships. Equal makes acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets in the ordinary course of business. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner, as well as our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses and operations with those of the Company. The integration of an acquired business may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management’s focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters, and may also result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of on-going business, supplier, customer and employee relationships and deficiencies in internal controls or information technology controls. We continually assess the value and mix of our assets in light of our business plans and strategic objectives. In this regard, non-core assets are periodically disposed of, so that the Company can focus our efforts and resources more efficiently. Depending on the state of the market for such non-core assets, certain non-core assets of the Company, if disposed of, could realize less than their carrying value on the financial statements of the Company. Our hedging program could result in us not realizing the full benefit of oil and natural gas price increases. From time to time Equal enters into agreements to receive fixed prices on our oil and natural gas production to offset the risk of revenue losses if commodity prices decline; however, if commodity prices increase beyond the levels set in such agreements, we will not benefit from such increases and we may nevertheless be obligated to pay royalties on such higher prices, even though not received by us, after giving effect to such agreements. Similarly, from time to time the Company might enter into agreements to fix the exchange rate of Canadian to United States dollars in order to offset the risk of revenue losses if the Canadian dollar increases in value compared to the United States dollar; however, if the Canadian dollar declines in value compared to the United States dollar, the Company will not benefit from the fluctuating exchange rate. To the extent that we engage in risk management activities, there are potential credit risks associated with the counterparties with which we contract. 23 Table of Contents Our directors could have conflicts of interest that create incentives for them to act contrary to or in competition with the interests of our shareholders. Certain of the directors of Equal are also directors and officers of other oil and gas companies involved in natural resource exploration and development, and conflicts of interest may arise between their duties as directors of Equal and as officers and directors of such other companies. Such conflicts must be disclosed in accordance with, and are subject to such other procedures and remedies as apply under the ABCA and under our Code of Business Conduct. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 