ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market. The following is a discussion of the specific risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results: 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow and may never achieve profitability. We have a history of operating losses and at December 29, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $272.2 million. Our ability to achieve profitability will be influenced by many factors, including the extent and duration of our future operating losses, the level and timing of future revenue and expenditures, development, commercialization and market acceptance of new products, the results and scope of ongoing research and development projects, the success of our direct sales force and independent distributor and sales agency organization and transitions related thereto, competing technologies and market developments and regulatory requirements and delays. As a result, we may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses will continue to have an adverse impact on our shareholders’ equity, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have transitioned in our U.S. sales channel from a network of independent sales agencies that sold our full product portfolio to a combination of direct sales teams and independent sales agencies that are individually focused on selling either upper extremity products or lower extremity products across the territories that they serve. This transition has had, and likely will continue to have, an adverse effect on our operations and operating results and, ultimately, may not prove to be successful. In the United States, we historically had a single sales channel that consisted of a network of independent commission-based sales agencies, along with direct sales representation in certain territories. As a result of our acquisition of OrthoHelix in October 2012, we decided to transition to a combination of direct sales teams and independent sales agencies that are individually focused on selling either upper extremity products or lower extremity products across the territories that they serve. We believe this strategy provides increased focus to our sales teams and allows us to increase the product proficiency of our sales representatives and increase our selling opportunities by improving our overall procedure coverage, leveraging our entire product portfolio, and accessing new specialists, general surgeons and accounts. However, we may be incorrect and it is possible that our separate sales strategy may be unsuccessful. To create these separate upper and lower extremity sales channels, we terminated relationships with certain independent sales agencies and transitioned these territories to new agencies or established direct sales representation; acquired sales agencies and established direct sales representation; or transitioned an upper or lower extremity product portfolio between agencies or from an agency to a new direct sales team. This transition caused disruption in our U.S. sales channel during 2013 and we expect that this disruption will continue throughout 2014 as we continue to separate territories, hire additional sales representatives and educate and train our sales teams. It is also possible that we may become subject to litigation and incur future charges and cash expenditures in connection with this transition, which charges and cash expenditures would adversely affect our operating results. We rely on distributors, independent sales agencies and their representatives to market and sell our products in certain territories. A failure to retain our existing relationships with these distributors, independent sales agencies and their representatives or changes and transitions with respect to our sales organization have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our operations and operating results. Our success is partially dependent upon our ability to retain and motivate our distributors, independent sales agencies and their representatives to sell our products in certain territories. We depend on their sales and service expertise and their relationships with surgeons in the marketplace. Our distribution system in the United States currently consists of approximately 145 direct sales representatives and approximately 40 independent sales agencies that sell our products. Internationally, we currently utilize several distribution approaches depending on individual market requirements and, as a result, our international distribution system consists of 13 direct sales offices and approximately 25 distributors that sell our products in approximately 45 countries. As part of our strategy to grow internationally, we have selectively converted from distributor representation to direct sales representation in certain countries, including the United Kingdom, Denmark, Belgium, Luxembourg, Japan, Australia and Canada, and we have selectively converted from direct sales representation to distributor representation in certain countries, including Spain, during the past few years. We do not control our distributors or independent sales agencies and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Some of our distributors and independent sales agencies do not sell our products exclusively and may offer similar products from other orthopaedic companies. Our distributors and independent sales agencies may terminate their contracts with us, may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products or may focus their sales efforts on other products that produce greater commissions for them. A failure to maintain our existing relationships with or changes and transitions with respect to our distributors and independent sales agencies and their representatives have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our operations and operating results. 15 Table of Contents If we do not successfully develop and market new products and technologies and implement our business strategy, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. To implement our business strategy we need to, among other things, develop and introduce new extremity joint products, find new applications for and improve our existing products, properly identify and anticipate our surgeons’ and their patients’ needs, obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for new products and applications and educate surgeons about the clinical and cost benefits of our products. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, and we expect new products to account for a significant portion of our future growth. If we do not continue to introduce new products and technologies, or if those products and technologies are not accepted, we may not be successful. Moreover, research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or innovation. Demand for our products also could change in ways we may not anticipate due to evolving customer needs, changing demographics, slow industry growth rates, evolving surgical philosophies and evolving industry standards, among others. Additionally, our competitors’ new products and technologies may precede our products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than our products or may render our products obsolete. Our new products and technologies also could render our existing products obsolete and thus adversely affect sales of our existing products and lead to increased expense for excess and obsolete inventory. For example, we believe that sales of our Aequalis Ascend Flex convertible shoulder system may adversely affect demand for and sales of our other mature shoulder products. Our targeted surgeons practice in areas such as shoulder, upper extremities, lower extremities, sports medicine and reconstructive and general orthopaedics, and our strategy of focusing primarily on these surgeons may not be successful. Even if we successfully implement our business strategy, our operating results may not improve. We may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt different strategies due to business or competitive factors, which could negatively impact our operating results. We may be unable to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, in which case our revenue and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not grow. The market for orthopaedic devices is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use by our customers. We face competition from large diversified orthopaedic manufacturers, such as DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary, Zimmer Corporation, Biomet, Inc. and Stryker Corporation, and established mid-sized orthopaedic manufacturers, such as Arthrex, Inc., Wright Medical Group, Inc., Exactech, Inc., Integra LifeSciences Corporation and ArthroCare Corporation. Many of the companies developing or marketing competitive orthopaedic products enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • greater financial and human resources for product development and sales and marketing; • greater name recognition; • established relationships with surgeons, hospitals and third-party payors; • broader product lines and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and • established sales and marketing and distribution networks. We also compete against smaller, entrepreneurial companies with niche product lines. Some of our competitors have indicated an increased focus on the extremities market, which is our primary strategic focus. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for competing products more rapidly than us, develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive or acquire technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business. Not all of our sales and other personnel have non-compete agreements. We also compete with other organizations in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales and management personnel. If our competitors are more successful than us in these matters, we may be unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from operations in markets outside the United States, which exposes us to additional risks. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from operations in markets outside the United States. Our distribution system outside the United States consists of 13 direct sales offices and approximately 25 distribution partners, who together sell in approximately 45 countries. Most of these countries are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and social instability. For 2013 and 2012, approximately 41% and 44% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from our operations outside the United States, including 19% of our revenue from France for both 2013 and 2012. Any material decrease in our international revenue may negatively affect our profitability. In the future, we intend to further expand our international operations into key markets, such as Brazil and China, as we have done, for example, in 2013, when we acquired certain 16 Table of Contents assets of our distributors in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and established direct sales forces in such countries, and in 2012, when we opened a direct sales office in Japan and acquired our exclusive distributor in Belgium and Luxembourg. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations on orthopaedic implants and biologics products; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export and import license requirements; • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with that country, company, person or entity; • economic instability, including the European sovereign debt crisis and the austerity measures taken and to be taken by certain countries in response to such crisis, and the currency risk between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in our target markets; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed upon us; • a shortage of high-quality international salespeople and distributors; • loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge or are otherwise important to our success in international markets; • significant and financially debilitating product liability exposure of which we are currently unaware; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may require us to sell our products at lower prices; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • changes in tariffs and other trade restrictions; • work stoppages or strikes in the healthcare industry; • difficulties in enforcing and defending intellectual property rights; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the Netherlands; • complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; and • exposure to different legal and political standards. Not only are we subject to the laws of jurisdictions located outside the United States in which we do business, but we also are subject to U.S. laws governing our activities in foreign countries, including various import-export laws, customs and import laws, anti-boycott laws and embargoes. For example, the FDA Export Reform and Enhancement Act of 1996 requires that, when exporting medical devices from the United States for sale in a foreign country, depending on the type of product being exported, the regulatory status of the product and the country to which the device is exported, we must ensure, among other things, that the device is produced in accordance with the specifications of the foreign purchaser; not in conflict with the laws of the country to which it is intended for export; labeled for export; and not offered for sale domestically. In addition, we must maintain records relevant to product export and, if requested by the foreign government, obtain a certificate of exportability. In some instances, prior notification to or approval from the FDA is required prior to export. The FDA can delay or deny export authorization if all applicable requirements are not satisfied. Imports of approved medical devices into the United States also are subject to requirements including registration of establishment, listing of devices, manufacturing in accordance with the quality system regulation, medical device reporting of adverse events, and premarket notification 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, or PMA, among others and if applicable. If our business activities were determined to violate these laws, regulations or rules, we could suffer serious consequences. In addition, a portion of our international revenue is made through distributors. As a result, we are dependent upon the financial health of our distributors. We also are dependent upon the compliance of our distributors with foreign laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, as it relates to certain “facilitating” payments made to those employed by or acting on behalf of a foreign government in the procurement, sale and prescription of medical devices. If a distributor were to go out of business, it would take substantial time, cost and resources to find a suitable replacement and the products held by such distributor may not be returned to us or to a subsequent distributor in a timely manner or at all. Disruption and turmoil in global credit and financial markets, which may be exacerbated by the inability of certain countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and certain austerity measures countries have implemented, and the possible negative implications of such events to the global economy, may negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenue outside the United States is generated in the European Union, or EU, including in particular France. The credit and economic conditions within certain European Union countries, including France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain in particular, and the possibility that they may default on their debt obligations, have contributed to instability in global credit and financial markets during the past couple of years. The continued possibility that such EU member states may default on their debt obligations, the continued uncertainty regarding international and the European Union’s financial support programs and the continued possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global credit and financial markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it is possible that such events could continue to have a negative effect on the global economy as a whole, and our business, operating results and financial condition, in particular. For example, if the European sovereign debt crisis continues or worsens, the negative implications to the global economy and us could be significant. Since a significant amount of our trade receivables are with hospitals that are dependent upon governmental health care systems in many countries, repayment of such receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. A deterioration of economic conditions in such countries may increase the average length of time it takes for us to collect on our outstanding accounts receivable in these countries or even our ability to collect such receivables. In addition, if the European sovereign debt crisis continues or worsens, the value of the Euro could deteriorate or lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the Euro currency entirely, all of which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition in light of our substantial operations in and revenues derived from customers in the European Union. Should the Euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of Euro denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our Euro denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could lead to tightening of the credit and financial markets, which could negatively impact the ability of companies to borrow money from their existing lenders, obtain credit from other sources or raise financing to fund their operations. This could negatively impact our customers’ ability to purchase our products, our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components and our ability, if needed, to finance our operations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We believe that European governmental austerity policies have reduced and may continue to reduce the amount of money available to purchase medical products, including our products. These austerity measures could negatively impact overall procedure volumes and result in increased pricing pressure for our products and the products of our competitors. Any or all of these events, as well as any additional austerity measures that may be taken which, among other things, could result in decreased utilization, pricing and reimbursement, could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Weakness in the global economy is likely to adversely affect our business until an economic recovery is underway. Many of our products are used in procedures covered by private insurance, and some of these procedures may be considered elective. We believe that weakness in the global economy may reduce the availability or affordability of private insurance or may affect patient decisions to undergo elective procedures. If current economic conditions do not continue to recover or worsen, we expect that increasing levels of unemployment and pressures to contain healthcare costs could adversely affect the global growth rate of procedure volume, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates could result in declines in our reported revenue and earnings. A substantial portion of our revenue outside the United States is generated in Europe and other countries in Latin America and Asia where the amounts are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For purposes of preparing our consolidated financial statements, these amounts are converted into U.S. dollars, the value of which varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. For revenue not denominated in U.S. dollars, if there is an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the specified foreign currency, we will receive less in U.S. dollars than before the increase in the exchange rate, which could negatively impact our operating results. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and more recently through hedging activities, those actions may not prove to be fully effective, and hedging activities involve additional risks. Our business plan relies on assumptions about the market for our products, which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our revenue. We believe that the aging of the general population and increasingly active lifestyles and expectations regarding “quality of life” will continue and that these trends will increase the need for our products. We also believe that if clinical outcomes are improved as a result of extremity procedures over alternative treatments or no treatment, awareness regarding such extremity procedures will increase, more surgeons will recommend extremity procedures and more patients will elect to undergo them as opposed to alternative treatments or no treatment. Since most of our products are designed specifically for extremities and 18 Table of Contents early intervention, we believe the market for our extremities products in particular will continue to grow. The actual demand for our products, however, could differ materially from our projected demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if non-surgical treatments gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to our orthopaedic implants. If this occurs, our revenue and other operating results could be adversely affected. Our upper extremity joints and trauma products, including in particular our shoulder products, generate a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, if revenue of these products were to decline, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our upper extremity joints and trauma products, which includes joint implants and bone fixation devices for the shoulder, hand, wrist and elbow, generate a significant portion of our revenue. During 2013 and 2012, our upper extremity joints and trauma products generated approximately 59% and 63% of our revenue, respectively. We expect the shoulder to continue to be the largest and most important product category for us for the foreseeable future. In particular, we anticipate that our upper extremity joints and trauma product revenue will be favorably impacted in future periods as a result of the third quarter of 2013 launch of our Aequalis Ascend Flex. However, our expectations may prove to be incorrect and it is possible that the market acceptance of the Aequalis Ascend Flex will not meet our expectations or may have the effect of negatively impacting sales of our other shoulder products. A decline in our upper extremity joints and trauma product revenue as a result of lack of market acceptance of new products, the effect of new products on sales of existing products, increased competition, regulatory matters, intellectual property matters or any other reason would negatively impact our operating results. We obtain some of our products through private-label distribution agreements that subject us to minimum performance and other criteria. Our failure to satisfy those criteria could cause us to lose those rights of distribution. We have entered into private-label distribution agreements with manufacturers of some of our products. These manufacturers brand their products according to our specifications, and we may have exclusive rights in certain fields of use and territories to sell these products subject to minimum purchase, sales or other performance criteria. Though these agreements do not individually or in the aggregate represent a material portion of our business, if we do not meet these performance criteria, or fail to renew these agreements, we may lose exclusivity in a field of use or territory or cease to have any rights to these products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue. Furthermore, some of these manufacturers may be smaller, undercapitalized companies that may not have sufficient resources to continue operations or to continue to supply us sufficient product without additional access to capital. If our private-label manufacturers fail to provide us with sufficient supply of their products, or if their supply fails to meet appropriate quality requirements, our business could suffer. Our private-label manufacturers are sole source suppliers of the products we purchase from them. Given the specialized nature of the products they provide, we may not be able to locate or establish additional or replacement manufacturers of these products. Moreover, these private-label manufacturers typically own the intellectual property associated with their products, and even if we could find a replacement manufacturer for the product, we may not have sufficient rights to enable the replacement party to manufacture the product. While we have entered into agreements with our private-label manufacturers that we believe will provide us sufficient quantities of products, we cannot assure you that they will do so, or that any products they do provide us will not contain defects in quality. Our private-label manufacturing agreements have terms expiring between this year and 2015 and are renewable under certain conditions or by mutual agreement. The agreements also include some or all of the following provisions allowing for termination under certain circumstances: (i) either party’s uncured material breach of the terms and conditions of the agreement; (ii) either party filing for bankruptcy, being bankrupt or becoming insolvent, suspending payments, dissolving or ceasing commercial activity; (iii) our inability to meet market development milestones and ongoing sales targets; (iv) termination without cause, provided that payments are made to the distributor; (v) a merger or acquisition of one of the parties by a third party; (vi) the enactment of a government law or regulation that restricts either party’s right to terminate or renew the contract or invalidates any provision of the agreement or (vii) the occurrence of a “force majeure,” including natural disaster, explosion or war. We also rely on these private-label manufacturers to comply with the regulations of the FDA, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, or foreign regulatory authorities and their failure to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. Any quality control problems that we experience with respect to products manufactured by our private-label manufacturers, any inability by us to provide our customers with sufficient supply of products or any investigations or enforcement actions by the FDA, the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA or other foreign regulatory authorities could adversely affect our reputation or commercialization of our products and adversely and materially affect our business and operating results. 19 Table of Contents We intend to continue to bring in-house the manufacturing of certain of our products that are currently manufactured by third parties. Should we encounter difficulties in manufacturing these or other products, it could adversely affect our business. We intend to continue our initiative to bring in-house the manufacturing of certain of our products, including in particular our Aequalis Ascend and Simpliciti shoulder products. The technology and the manufacturing process for our shoulder products is highly complex, involving a large number of unique parts, and we may encounter difficulties in manufacturing these products in-house. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet the volume and quality requirements associated with our shoulder products. In addition, other products that we choose to bring in-house could encounter similar difficulties. Manufacturing and product quality issues may also arise as we increase the scale of our production. If our products do not consistently meet our customers’ performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Any delay or inability in bringing in-house the manufacturing of our products could diminish our ability to sell our products, which could result in lost revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our U.S. operations, including those of our U.S. operating subsidiaries, Tornier, Inc. and OrthoHelix Surgical Designs, Inc., are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We also are subject to similar anticorruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. We either operate or plan to operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, such as China and Brazil, and we utilize a number of third-party sales representatives for whose actions we could be held liable under the FCPA. We inform our personnel and third-party sales representatives of the requirements of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. We also have developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on agents and improving our recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that our employees, third-party sales representatives or other agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by our processes and for which we might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anticorruption laws. If our employees, third-party sales representatives or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. During the past few years, the SEC has increased its enforcement of violations of the FCPA against companies, including several medical device companies. Although we do not believe we are currently a target, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities also could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice. If our competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, or from government officials, who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. If we lose one of our key suppliers, we may be unable to meet customer orders for our products in a timely manner or within our budget. We use a number of suppliers for raw materials and select components that we need to manufacture our products. These suppliers must provide the materials and components to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. We obtain some key raw materials and select components from a single source or a limited number of sources. For example, we rely on one supplier for raw materials and select components in several of our products, including Poco Graphite, Inc., which supplies graphite for our pyrocarbon products; CeramTec AG, or CeramTec, which supplies ceramic for ceramic heads for hips; and Heymark Metals Ltd., which supplies cobalt chrome used in certain of our hip, shoulder and elbow products. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components, and obtaining regulatory clearances 20 Table of Contents or approvals that may result from adding or replacing suppliers, could take a substantial amount of time, result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce our products, which would adversely impact our business and operating results. We do not have long-term or other supply contracts with our sole source suppliers and instead rely on purchase orders. As a result, those suppliers may elect not to supply us with product or to supply us with less product than we need, and we will have limited rights to cause them to do otherwise. In addition, some of our products, which we acquire from third parties, are highly technical and are required to meet exacting specifications, and any quality control problems that we experience with respect to the products supplied by third parties could adversely and materially affect our reputation or commercialization of our products and adversely and materially affect our business, operating results and prospects. Furthermore, some of these suppliers are smaller companies. To the extent that any of these suppliers are, or become, undercapitalized and do not otherwise have sufficient resources to continue operations or to supply us sufficient product without additional access to capital, such a failure could adversely affect our business. We also may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA, the competent authorities or notified bodies of the Member States of the EEA, or foreign regulatory authorities and the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. Furthermore, since many of these suppliers are located outside of the United States, we are subject to foreign export laws and U.S. import and customs regulations, which complicate and could delay shipments of components to us. For example, all foreign importers of medical devices are required to meet applicable FDA requirements, including registration of establishment, listing of devices, manufacturing in accordance with the quality system regulation, medical device reporting of adverse events, and premarket notification 510(k) clearance or PMA, if applicable. In addition, all imported medical devices also must meet U.S. Customs and Border Protection requirements. While it is our policy to maintain sufficient inventory of materials and components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time, we remain at risk that we will not be able to qualify new components or materials quickly enough to prevent a disruption if one or more of our suppliers ceases production of important components or materials. Sales volumes may fluctuate depending on the season and our operating results may fluctuate over the course of the year. Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans. Additionally, elective procedures typically decline in certain parts of Europe during the third quarter of the year due to holiday and vacation schedules. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience meaningful variability in our revenue and gross profit among quarters, as well as within each quarter, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things: • transitions to direct selling models in certain geographies and the transition of our U.S. sales channel towards focusing separately on upper and lower extremity products; • the number and mix of products sold in the quarter and the geographies in which they are sold; • the demand for, and pricing of, our products and the products of our competitors; • the timing of or failure to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for products • costs, benefits and timing of new product introductions; • the level of competition; • the timing and extent of promotional pricing or volume discounts; • changes in average selling prices; • the availability and cost of components and materials; • the number of selling days; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the timing of patients’ use of their calendar year medical insurance deductibles; and • impairment and other special charges. We may not achieve our financial guidance or projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly, which could have an adverse effect on our business and could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. On a quarterly basis, we typically provide projected financial information, such as our anticipated quarterly and annual revenues, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and net loss. These financial projections are based on management’s then current expectations and typically do not contain any significant margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The failure to achieve our financial projections or the projections of analysts and investors could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint analysts and investors and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Since our initial public offering, our revenue performance has been outside of our guidance range in certain quarters, including the third quarter of 2013, which negatively impacted the market price of our ordinary shares, and could do so in the future should our results fall below our guidance range and the expectations of analysts and investors. 21 Table of Contents We also set goals and objectives for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments and milestones regarding our business, such as the timing of new products, regulatory actions and anticipated distributor and sales representative transitions. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors including the risk factors described in this report. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in achieving our projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly. The failure to achieve such projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint investors and analysts and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, our business may be harmed. The manufacture and sale of orthopaedic medical devices exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims. In the past, we have had a small number of product liability claims relating to our products, none of which either individually, or in the aggregate, have resulted in a material negative impact on our business. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Such claims could divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • significant litigation and other costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients; • product recalls; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize new products or product candidates. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely affect or eliminate the prospects for commercialization or sales of a product or product candidate which is the subject of any such claim. In addition, a recall of our products, whether or not as a result of a product liability claim, could result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, significant litigation and other costs, substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients, loss of revenue and our inability to commercialize new products or product candidates. Our inability to maintain adequate working relationships with external research and development consultants and surgeons could have a negative impact on our ability to develop and sell new products. We maintain professional working relationships with external research and development consultants and leading surgeons and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development and training. We continue to emphasize the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. It is possible that U.S. federal and state and international laws requiring us to disclose payments or other transfers of value, such as free gifts or meals, to physicians and other healthcare providers could have a chilling effect on these relationships with individuals or entities that may, among other things, want to avoid public scrutiny of their financial relationships with us. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop and sell new and improved products could decrease, and our future operating results could be unfavorably affected. We incur significant expenditures of resources to maintain relatively high levels of inventory and instruments, which can reduce our cash flows. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory and instruments, we are subject to the risk of obsolescence. The nature of our business requires us to maintain a substantial level of inventory and instruments. For example, our total consolidated inventory balance was $87.0 million and $86.7 million at December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively, and our total consolidated instrument balance was $63.1 million and $51.4 million at December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively. In order to market effectively we often must maintain and bring our customers instrument kits, back-up products and products of different sizes. In the event that a substantial portion of our inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting costs associated 22 Table of Contents with inventory impairment charges and costs required to replace such inventory. The third quarter of 2013 launch of our Aequalis Ascend Flex convertible shoulder system could adversely affect demand for and sales of our other mature shoulder products, which could result in a higher level of excess and obsolete inventory charges or otherwise negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Our acquisition of OrthoHelix in October 2012 and any additional acquisitions and efforts to acquire and integrate other companies or product lines could adversely affect our operations and financial results. During 2013, we acquired certain assets of our distributors in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and established direct sales forces in such countries and acquired certain assets of some of our independent sales agencies in the United States and established direct sales forces in certain territories. During fourth quarter of 2012, we acquired OrthoHelix, a company focused on developing and marketing specialty implantable screw and plate systems for the repair of small bone fractures and deformities predominantly in the foot and ankle. In addition, we may pursue additional acquisitions of other distributors, companies or product lines. A successful acquisition depends on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisition and to obtain any necessary financing. With respect to these recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses and their respective personnel and products into our existing business; • difficulties in integrating commercial organizations, including in particular distribution and sales representative arrangements; • difficulties or delays in realizing the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisitions or any additional acquired companies and their products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • challenges due to limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • the potential loss of key employees, including in particular sales and research and development personnel; • the potential loss of key customers, distributors, representatives, vendors and other business partners who choose not to do business with our company post-acquisition; • inability to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate our capabilities post-acquisition and coordinate sales organizations to sell our combined products; • inability to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address our new market opportunities post-acquisition; • inability to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to us post-acquisition; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures, practices and sales and distribution methodologies, as well as in the assimilation and retention of geographically dispersed, decentralized operations and personnel; • unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • incurrence of acquisition and integration related costs, accounting charges, or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets; • potential write-down of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and/or deferred tax assets; • additional legal, financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as intellectual property, tax planning, cash management and financial reporting and • any unforeseen compliance risks and accompanying financial and reputational exposure or loss not uncovered in the due diligence process and which are imputed to Tornier, such as compliance with federal laws and regulations, the advertising and promotion regulations under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Anti-kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the Physician Sunshine Payments Act and other applicable laws. In addition, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, the issuance of which could involve restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Acquisitions also could materially impair our operating results by requiring us to amortize acquired assets. For example, as a result of our acquisition of OrthoHelix, we incurred additional indebtedness under two senior secured term loans, the proceeds of which were used to fund our acquisition of OrthoHelix and retire certain then existing indebtedness. In addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in our systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired 23 Table of Contents businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. All of the risks described above may be exacerbated if we effect multiple acquisitions during a short period of time. If we do not achieve the contemplated benefits of our acquisition of OrthoHelix, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. We may not achieve the desired benefits from our acquisition of OrthoHelix. For any of the reasons described above and elsewhere in this report and even if we are able to successfully operate OrthoHelix within our company, we may not be able to realize the revenue and other synergies and growth that we anticipate from the acquisition in the time frame that we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than what we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the possibility that the acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected; • the possibility that we may not be able to expand the reach and customer base for OrthoHelix’s products as expected; • the possibility that we may not be able to expand the reach and customer base for our products as expected; and • the fact that the acquisition will substantially expand our lower extremity joints and trauma business, and we may not experience anticipated growth in that market. As a result of these risks, the OrthoHelix acquisition may not contribute to our earnings as expected, we may not achieve expected revenue synergies or our return on invested capital targets when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of the transaction. For example, some of these risks materialized during 2013. As part of our OrthoHelix integration initiative to establish separate U.S. sales channels that are individually focused on upper extremity products and lower extremity products, we terminated some of our existing sales relationships with certain distributors and independent sales agencies. Upon these terminations, we entered into agreements with existing distributors and sales agencies to take on the impacted products or territories, contracted with new distributors and sales agencies, hired direct sales representatives, or used a combination of these options. These terminations, changes and transitions have resulted and may continue to result in disruption in our U.S. sales channel, thereby adversely affecting our operations and operating results. If we cannot attract and retain our key personnel, we may not be able to manage and operate successfully, and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain and motivate our management team and key managerial, scientific, sales and technical personnel. Key personnel may depart because of difficulties with change or a desire not to remain with our company. Any unanticipated loss or interruption of services of our management team and our key personnel could significantly reduce our ability to meet our strategic objectives because it may not be possible for us to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. In addition, we have hired and expect to continue to hire additional sales personnel, especially in territories where we have recently commenced direct sales operations. We compete for personnel with other companies, academic institutions, governmental entities and other organizations. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully. Further, any inability on our part to enforce non-compete arrangements related to key personnel who have left the company could have a material adverse effect on our business. Fluctuations in insurance cost and availability could adversely affect our profitability or our risk management profile. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Likewise, if any of our current insurance coverage should become unavailable to us or become economically impractical, we would be required to operate our business without indemnity from commercial insurance providers. If a natural or man-made disaster, including as a result of climate change or weather, adversely affects our manufacturing facilities or distribution channels, we could be unable to manufacture or distribute our products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. 24 Table of Contents We principally rely on three manufacturing facilities, two of which are in France and one of which is in Ireland. The facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. For example, the machinery associated with our manufacturing of pyrocarbon in one of our French facilities is highly specialized and would take substantial lead-time and resources to replace. We also maintain a facility in Bloomington, Minnesota, and a warehouse in Montbonnot, France, both of which contain large amounts of our inventory. Our facilities, warehouses or distribution channels may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. Further, such may be exacerbated by climate change, as some scientists have concluded that climate change could result in the increased severity of and perhaps more frequent occurrence of extreme weather patterns. For example, in the event of a tornado at one of our warehouses, we may lose substantial amounts of inventory that would be difficult to replace. In the event our facilities, warehouses or distribution channels are affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on, among others, third-party manufacturers and alternative warehouse space and distribution channels, which may or may not be available, and our revenue could decline. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce, eliminate or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. There is no guarantee that our anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to: • continue our research and development; • develop, obtain required regulatory approvals or clearances and commercialize new products; • make changes in our distribution channels; • defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property rights and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights; and • acquire companies and in-license products or intellectual property. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents balance of $56.8 million as of December 29, 2013, anticipated cash receipts generated from revenue of our products and available credit under our $30.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our future revenues and expenses; • required regulatory approval, commercial introduction and market acceptance of our products; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials; • the cost of our research and development activities; • the cost and timing of additional regulatory clearances or approvals; • the cost and timing of expanding our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost and timing of our product offering inventories; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending any claims of product liability, or other claims against us, such as contract liabilities; • our ability to collect amounts receivable from customers; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional businesses, products and technologies. In the event that we would require additional working capital to fund future operations, we could seek to acquire that through additional equity or debt financing arrangements which may or may not be available on favorable terms at such time. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt, in addition to those under our existing credit facilities. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our shareholders. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. 25 Table of Contents Any lack of borrowing availability under our credit facility and our potential inability to obtain replacement sources of credit could materially affect our operations and financial condition. Although we currently have available credit under our $30.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, our ability to draw on our credit facility may be limited by outstanding letters of credit or by operating and financial covenants under our the credit agreement. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to credit if our operating and financial performance do not satisfy these covenants. If we do not satisfy these criteria, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the lenders of our credit facility, we will not have access to this credit. Both the $30.0 million revolving credit facility and the $60.9 million term loan under our credit agreement as of December 29, 2013 are secured by all of our assets (subject to certain exceptions) and except to the extent otherwise permitted under the terms of our credit agreement, our assets cannot be pledged as security for other indebtedness. These limits on our ability to offer collateral to other sources of financing could limit our ability to obtain other financing which could materially affect our operations and financial condition. Although we believe that our anticipated operating cash flows, on-hand cash levels and access to credit will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for at least the next 12 months, there can be no assurance that they will do so. Any lack of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility and our potential inability to obtain replacement sources of credit could materially affect our operations and financial condition. We are leveraged financially, which could adversely affect our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our future research and development needs, to protect and enforce our intellectual property and other needs. We have significant indebtedness. As of December 29, 2013, we had a senior secured term loan outstanding in the amount of $60.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $3.2 million. In addition, as of December 29, 2013, we have $30.0 million of credit availability under our senior secured revolving line of credit. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • our ability to utilize our existing available credit under our senior secured revolving line of credit or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, litigation, general corporate or other purposes may be limited; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations in the future will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the requirement that certain excess cash flows and certain net proceeds of asset dispositions (including from condemnation or casualty) and certain new indebtedness be applied to prepayment of our senior secured terms loans; and • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our credit agreement could result in events of default under such agreement, which could require the immediate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the agreements relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. The agreement relating to our senior secured term loan and senior secured revolving credit facility contains operating covenants limiting our ability to transfer or dispose of assets, merge with or acquire other companies, make investments, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness and liens, make capital expenditures and conduct transactions with affiliates, and financial covenants requiring us to meet certain financial ratios. We, therefore, may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions or in any that would cause us to breach these financial covenants until our current debt obligations are paid in full or we obtain the consent of the lenders. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or revenue to meet these operating and financial covenants or pay the principal and interest on our debt. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance any such debt. 26 Table of Contents As a result of our acquisition of OrthoHelix, we may be required to make future earn-out payments of up to an aggregate of $20.0 million based upon our sales of lower extremity joints and trauma products during fiscal years 2013 and 2014, which payments may affect our liquidity and our operating results. In connection with our acquisition of OrthoHelix, we agreed to made additional earn-out payments of up to an aggregate of $20.0 million in cash based upon our sales of lower extremity joints and trauma products during 2013 and 2014. A portion of the earn-out payments are subject to certain rights of set-off for post-closing indemnification obligations of OrthoHelix’s equity holders. Based upon sales of lower extremity joints and trauma products during 2013, we may be required to make an earn-out payment in the amount of approximately $4.6 million. If we are required to make another payment based upon 2014 sales during 2015 and if at this time we are experiencing financial difficulty, our liquidity, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the entities through which we operate and to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. We operate through multiple entities and in multiple income tax jurisdictions with different income tax rates both inside and outside the United States and the Netherlands. Accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each such entity and each of these jurisdictions. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required. Since income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, our future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlement of these matters. Future changes in technology or market conditions could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balance for intangible assets, including goodwill, resulting in additional charges that could significantly impact our operating results. Our consolidated balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, including $251.5 million in goodwill and $117.6 million in other acquired intangible assets, together representing 52% of our total assets as of December 29, 2013. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgments. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows related to these intangible assets may be adversely affected by unforeseen and uncontrollable events. In the highly competitive medical device industry, new technologies could impair the value of our intangible assets if they create market conditions that adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. We test our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, but we also test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at any time when there is a change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. Any future determination that these assets are carried at greater than their fair value could result in substantial non-cash impairment charges, which could significantly impact our reported operating results. If reimbursement from third-party payors for our products becomes inadequate, surgeons and patients may be reluctant to use our products and our revenue may decline. In the United States, healthcare providers who purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of joint reconstructive procedures and products utilized in those procedures. We may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement. Our revenue depends largely on governmental healthcare programs and private health insurers reimbursing patients’ medical expenses. As part of the Budget Control Act to extend the federal debt limit and reduce government spending, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts (known as sequestration) are scheduled to occur over the next decade. Half of the automatic reductions are to come from lowering the caps imposed on non-defense discretionary spending and cutting domestic entitlement programs, including aggregate reductions in payments to Medicare providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. Subsequent legislation reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure. To contain costs of new technologies, third-party payors are increasingly scrutinizing new treatment modalities by requiring extensive evidence of clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness. Currently, we are aware of several private insurers who have issued policies that classify procedures using our Salto Talaris Prosthesis and Conical Subtalar Implants as experimental or investigational and denied coverage and reimbursement for such procedures. Surgeons, hospitals and other healthcare providers may not purchase our products if they do not receive satisfactory reimbursement from these third-party payors for the cost of the procedures using our products. Payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. If we are not successful in reversing existing non-coverage policies or other private insurers issue similar policies, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. 27 Table of Contents In addition, some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures, including joint reconstructive surgeries, or by requiring the use of the least expensive implant available. Changes in reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products may cause our revenue to decline. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international revenue of our products may decline. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for orthopaedic medical devices and procedures. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and will continue to become more intense. This in turn has resulted and likely will continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or operating results. If we experience significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our business may be adversely affected. We depend on our information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business, including accounting, data storage, purchasing and inventory management. Currently, we have a non-interconnected information technology system; however, in 2013, we began implementing a new enterprise resource planning system (ERP) across our significant operating locations. We expect that the ERP will take two to three years to implement; however, when complete it should enable management to better and more efficiently conduct our operations and gather, analyze, and assess business information. The ERP will require the investment of significant human and financial resources. As a result of the implementation, we may experience difficulties in our business operations, or difficulties in operating our business under the ERP, either of which could disrupt our operations, including our ability to timely ship and track product orders, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain, and otherwise adequately service our customers, and lead to increased costs and other difficulties. In the event we experience significant disruptions as a result of the ERP implementation, we may not be able to fix our systems in an efficient and timely manner. Accordingly, such events may disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our entire operation and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Risks Related to Regulatory Environment The sale of our products is subject to regulatory clearances or approvals and our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to maintain regulatory clearances and approvals, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products could suffer. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness, and includes regulation of, among other things: • design, development and manufacturing; • testing, labeling, packaging, content and language of instructions for use, and storage; • clinical trials; 28 Table of Contents • product safety; • premarket clearance and approval; • marketing, sales and distribution (including making product claims); • advertising and promotion; • product modifications; • recordkeeping procedures; • recalls and field corrective actions; • post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and • product import and export. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, a de novo approval or a PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device. To establish substantial equivalence which allows the device to be marketed, the applicant must demonstrate the device has the: (i) the same intended use; (ii) the same technological characteristics; and (iii) to the extent the technological characteristic are different, that they do not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence, but FDA’s expectations for data are often unclear and do change. Another procedure for obtaining marketing authorization for a medical device is the “de novo classification” procedure, pursuant to which FDA may authorize the marketing of a moderate to low risk device that has no predicate. These submissions typically require more information (i.e. non-clinical and/or clinical performance data) and take longer than a 510(k), but require less data and a shorter time period than a PMA approval. If the FDA grants the de novo request, the device is permitted to enter commercial distribution in the same manner as if 510(k) clearance had been granted, and the device becomes a 510(k) predicate for future devices seeking to call it a “predicate.” The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k) or a PMA. The 510(k), de novo and PMA processes can be expensive, lengthy and sometimes unpredictable. The processes also entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from six to 18 months, but may take longer if more data are needed. The de novo process can take one to two years or longer if additional data are needed. The PMA pathway is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to five years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA until an approval is obtained. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Most of our currently commercialized products have received premarket clearances under Section 510(k) of the FDCA. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to existing products than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our revenue to decline. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain de novo or PMA processes. Although we do not currently market any devices under PMA and have not gone through the de novo classification for marketing clearance, we cannot assure you that the FDA will not demand that we obtain a PMA prior to marketing or that we will be able to obtain 510(k) clearances with respect to future products. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products meet the definition of “substantial equivalence” or meet the standard for the FDA to grant a petition for de novo classification; • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended uses; • the data from our pre-clinical studies (bench and/or animal) and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA clearance or approval policies or the adoption of new regulations may require additional data. 29 Table of Contents Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, clearances or approvals for our products under development could prevent us from generating revenue from these products or achieving profitability. Additionally, the FDA and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could lead governmental authorities or a court to take action against us, including but not limited to: • issuing untitled (notice of violation) letters or public warning letters to us; • imposing fines and penalties on us; • obtaining an injunction or administrative detention preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • seizing products to prevent sale or transport or export; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • recalling our products or engaging in a product correction; • detaining our products at U.S. Customs; • delaying the introduction of our products into the market; • delaying pending requests for clearance or approval of new uses or modifications to our existing products; and/or • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If we fail to obtain and maintain regulatory clearances or approvals, our ability to sell our products and generate revenue will be materially harmed. Outside of the United States, our medical devices must comply with the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which they are marketed, and compliance may be costly and time-consuming. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in jurisdictions outside the United States will prevent us from marketing our products in such jurisdictions. We currently market, and intend to continue to market, our products outside the United States. To market and sell our product in countries outside the United States, we must seek and obtain regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations and comply with the laws and regulations of those countries. These laws and regulations, including the requirements for approvals, certifications or registrations and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval in addition to other risks. In order to market our products in the Member States of the EEA, our devices are required to comply with the essential requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directives (Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices, as amended, and Council Directive 90/385/EEC of 20 June 2009 relating to active implantable medical devices, as amended). Compliance with these requirements entitles us to affix the CE conformity mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be commercialized in the EEA. In order to demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE conformity mark we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. Except for low risk medical devices (Class I), where the manufacturer can issue an EC Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directives, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body, which is an organization accredited by a Member State of the EEA to conduct conformity assessments. The Notified Body would typically audit and examine the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of our devices before issuing a certification demonstrating compliance with the essential requirements. Based on this certification we can draw up an EC Declaration of Conformity, which allows us to affix the CE mark to our products. We may not obtain regulatory approvals or certifications outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Clearance or approval by the FDA does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities or Notified Bodies in other countries, and approval or certification by one foreign regulatory authority or Notified Body does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. We may be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if FDA clearance or approval, or the right to bear the CE mark, has been obtained. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Modifications to our marketed products may require new 510(k) clearances or PMAs, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, technology, materials, packaging and certain manufacturing processes, may require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA in the first instance, but the FDA may (and often does) review the manufacturer’s 30 Table of Contents decision. The FDA may not agree with a manufacturer’s decision regarding whether a new clearance or approval is necessary for a modification, and may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting 510(k) clearance or an application for PMA. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. No assurance can be given that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA. The issue of whether a product modification is significant enough to require a 510(k), as opposed to a simple “letter-to-file” documenting the change, is in a state of flux. In 1997, FDA issued a guidance to address this issue and it is a guidance with which FDA and industry is very familiar. In 2011, FDA proposed a new modifications guidance that was very controversial with industry because industry interpreted the guidance to reflect FDA’s view that it would require more 510(k)s than under the 1997 modifications guidance. On July 9, 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, FDASIA, was signed into law. Among other things, FDASIA requires the FDA to withdraw this proposed new modifications guidance and does not allow the FDA to use this draft guidance as part of, or for the basis of, any premarket review or any compliance or enforcement decisions or actions. FDASIA also obligates the FDA to prepare a report for Congress on the FDA’s approach for determining when a new 510(k) will be required for modifications or changes to a previously cleared device. After submitting this report, the FDA is expected to issue revised guidance to assist device manufacturers in making this determination. Until then, manufacturers may continue to adhere to the FDA’s 1997 guidance on this topic when making a determination as to whether or not a new 510(k) is required for a change or modification to a device, but the practical impact of the FDA’s continuing scrutiny of these issues remains unclear. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and recall a modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA, our business, financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Further, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA. Healthcare policy changes, including legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the PPACA, substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of healthcare items and services, and significantly impacts the medical device industry. The PPACA includes, among other things, the following measures: • an excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States; • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; • new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers (referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act), which reporting requirements will be difficult to define, track and report, and which reports are due to CMS by March 31, 2014 and by the 90th day of each calendar year thereafter; • payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before January 1, 2013; • an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate; and • a new licensure framework for follow-on biologic products. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, these provisions as adopted could meaningfully change the way healthcare is delivered and financed, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business. In particular, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, in the future there may continue to be additional proposals relating to the reform of the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products, and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Furthermore, initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. We could experience a negative impact on our operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the United States and certain other markets. Governments, hospitals and other third-party payors could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for our products. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. Our financial performance may continue to be adversely affected by medical device tax provisions in the health care reform laws. The PPACA imposes a deductible excise tax equal to 2.3% of the price of a medical device on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States, with limited exceptions. Under these provisions, the total cost to the medical device industry was estimated to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. These taxes resulted in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry and on us, which negatively impacted our operating results and our cash flows during 2013. Should this tax continue to exist or change, our operating results could continue to be negatively impacted. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in improper promotion of our products. Our products currently marketed in the United States have been cleared by the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process for use under specific circumstances. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition on the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a device outside of its cleared or approved indication is known as “off-label” use. We cannot prevent a surgeon from using our products or procedure for off-label use, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials, reimbursement advice or training of sales representatives or physicians constitute promotion of an off-label use, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional or reimbursement materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, disgorgement of profits, a civil fine and criminal penalties. Other federal, state or foreign governmental authorities also might take action if they consider our promotion or training materials to constitute promotion of an uncleared or unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although we train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses, and our instructions for use in all markets specify that our products are not intended for use outside of those indications cleared for use, the FDA or another regulatory agency could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. Further, the advertising and promotion of our products is subject to EEA Member States laws implementing Directive 93/42/EEC concerning Medical Devices, or the EU Medical Devices Directive, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EEA Member State legislation governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. These laws may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals. Our failure to comply with all these laws and requirements may harm our business and operating results. In addition, there may be increased risk of injury if surgeons attempt to use our products off-label. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among surgeons and patients. Surgeons also may misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Any of these events could harm our business and operating results. If our marketed medical devices are defective or otherwise pose safety risks, the FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities could require their recall, or we may initiate a recall of our products voluntarily. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities may require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers, on their own initiative, may recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. In the past we have initiated voluntary product recalls. For example, in August 2013, we initiated a voluntary Class II recall for instrumentation contained within the Aequalis Reversed II and the Aequalis Reversed Fracture instrument sets. We notified our distributors, sales representatives and all direct consignees and directed them to return the affected instrumentation to us in exchange for redesigned instruments. 32 Table of Contents A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our sales agencies could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Any recall could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and our ability to generate profits. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our revenue. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. In the EEA we must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System, the purpose of which is to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of reoccurrence of incidents related to the use of a medical device. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health. Incidents are evaluated by the EEA competent authorities to whom they have been reported, and where appropriate, information is disseminated between them in the form of National Competent Authority Reports, or NCARs. The Medical Device Vigilance System is further intended to facilitate a direct, early and harmonized implementation of Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs across the Member States of the EEA where the device is in use. An FSCA is an action taken by a manufacturer to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its legal representative to its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, or MDR, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Our manufacturing operations require us to comply with the FDA’s and other governmental authorities’ laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and production of medical devices, which is costly and could subject us to enforcement action. We and certain of our third-party manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Program (cGMP) and Quality System Regulations, or QSR, which cover the methods of documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process for our products marketed outside of the United States. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. In January 2013, our OrthoHelix facility located in Medina, Ohio was subject to a routine FDA inspection. The inspection resulted in the issuance of a Form FDA-483 listing four inspectional observations. The FDA’s observations related to our documentation of corrective and preventative actions, procedures for receiving, reviewing and evaluating complaints, procedures to control product that does not conform to specified requirements and procedures to ensure that all purchased or otherwise received product and services conform to specified requirements. Although we believe we have corrected all four of these observations, the FDA could disagree with our conclusion and take corrective and remedial measures. In April 2013, our manufacturing facility located in Montbonnot, France was subject to a routine FDA inspection. The inspection resulted in the issuance of a Form FDA-483 listing one inspectional observation. The FDA’s observation related to our establishment of records of acceptable suppliers, contractors and consultants. Although we believe we have corrected the observation, the FDA could disagree with our conclusion and corrective and remedial measures. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the 33 Table of Contents FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, disgorgement of profits, criminal and civil penalties; • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products or modified products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMAs that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and our ability to generate profits. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. We are subject to substantial post-market government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many states such as Massachusetts, Connecticut, Nevada and Vermont require different types of compliance such as having a code of conduct, as well as reporting remuneration paid to health care professionals or entities in a position to influence prescribing behavior. Many of these industry standards inevitably influence company standards of conduct. Other laws tie into these standards as well, such as compliance with the advertising and promotion regulations under the U.S. federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and other laws. We use many distributors and independent sales representatives in certain territories and thus rely upon their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, such as with the advertising and promotion regulations under the U.S. federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Anti-kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, similar laws under countries located outside the United States and other applicable federal, state or international laws. The failure by us or one of our distributors, representatives or suppliers to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, the FDA or other governmental authorities: • imposing fines and penalties on us; • preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; • recalling, seizing, detaining or enjoining the sale of our products; • withdrawing, delaying or denying approvals or clearances for our products; • issuing warning letters or untitled letters; • imposing operating restrictions; • imposing injunctions; and • commencing criminal prosecutions. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements also could result in civil actions against us and other unanticipated expenditures. If any of these actions were to occur it would harm our reputation and cause our product revenue to suffer and may prevent us from generating revenue. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. Our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. We are currently conducting post-market clinical studies of some or our products to gather additional information about these products’ safety, efficacy or optimal use. We are also conducting a clinical trial of our Simpliciti product in the United States. In the future we may conduct additional clinical trials to support approval of new products. Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with FDA regulations or the FDA may take enforcement action. The data collected from these clinical trials may ultimately be used to support market clearance for these products. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the FDA or foreign authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not always ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product and may delay development of others. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product’s profile. 34 Table of Contents If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for or commercialize our products. We often must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. Future regulatory actions may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA and other regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal, state, and international healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse, false claims and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, healthcare regulation by federal, state and foreign governments could significantly impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include: • the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices and those of our independent sales agencies, educational programs, pricing, bundling and rebate policies, grants for physician-initiated trials and continuing medical education, and other remunerative relationships with healthcare providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws (such as the federal False Claims Act) which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, which impacts and regulates the reimbursement advice we give to our customers as it cannot be inaccurate and must relate to on-label uses of our products; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of certain health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts; and • federal, state and international laws that impose reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. If our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agencies, are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with 35 Table of Contents applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our company being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Further, the PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The PPACA also includes a number of provisions that impact medical device manufacturers, including the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. Failure to submit required information under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased state and international regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. Several countries, such as France, also regulate payments made to physicians. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our failure to comply with all these laws and requirements may harm our business and operating results. Governments and regulatory authorities vigorously enforce healthcare fraud and abuse laws, especially against companies in our industry. While we have not been the target of any investigations, we cannot guarantee that we will not be investigated in the future. If investigated we cannot assure that the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our existing xenograft-based biologics business is and any future biologics products we pursue would be subject to emerging governmental regulations that could materially affect our business. Some of our products are xenograft, or animal-based, tissue products. Our principal xenograft-based biologics offering is Conexa reconstructive tissue matrix. All of our current xenograft tissue-based products are regulated as medical devices and are subject to the FDA’s medical device regulations. We currently are planning to offer products based on human tissue. The FDA has statutory authority to regulate human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient, including allograft-based products. The FDA, EU and Health Canada have been working to establish more comprehensive regulatory frameworks for allograft-based, tissue-containing products, which are principally derived from cadaveric tissue. Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, authorizes the FDA to issue regulations to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable disease. HCT/Ps regulated as 361 HCT/Ps are subject to requirements relating to: registering facilities and listing products with the FDA; screening and testing for tissue donor eligibility; Good Tissue Practice, or GTP, when processing, storing, labeling and distributing HCT/Ps, including required labeling information; stringent recordkeeping; and adverse event reporting. The FDA has also proposed extensive additional requirements that address sub-contracted tissue services, tracking to the recipient/patient, and donor records review. If a tissue-based product is considered human tissue, the FDA requirements focus on preventing the introduction, transmission and spread of communicable diseases to recipients. A product regulated solely as a 361 HCT/P is not required to undergo premarket clearance (510(k)) or approval (de novo or PMA). The FDA may inspect facilities engaged in manufacturing 361 HCT/Ps and may issue untitled letters, warning letters, or otherwise authorize orders of retention, recall, destruction and cessation of manufacturing if the FDA has reasonable grounds to believe that an HCT/P or the facilities where it is manufactured are in violation of applicable regulations. There also are requirements relating to the import of HCT/Ps that allow the FDA to make a decision as to the HCT/Ps’ admissibility into the United States. 36 Table of Contents An HCT/P is eligible for regulation solely as a 361 HCT/P if it is: (i) minimally manipulated; (ii) intended for homologous use as determined by labeling, advertising or other indications of the manufacturer’s objective intent for a homologous use; (iii) the manufacture does not involve combination with another article, except for water, crystalloids or a sterilizing, preserving, or storage agent (not raising new clinical safety concerns for the HCT/P); and (iv) it does not have a systemic effect and is not dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function or, if it has such an effect, it is intended for autologous use or allogenetic use in close relatives or for reproductive use. If any of these requirements are not met, then the HCT/P is also subject to applicable biologic, device, or drug regulation under the FDCA or the PHSA. These biologic, device or drug HCT/Ps must comply both with the requirements exclusively applicable to 361 HCT/Ps and, in addition, with requirements applicable to biologics under the PHSA, or devices or drugs under the FDCA, including premarket licensure, clearance or approval. Title VII of the PPACA, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, creates a new licensure framework for follow-on biologic products, which could ultimately subject our biologics business to competition to so-called “biosimilars.” Under the BPCIA, a manufacturer may submit an application for licensure of a biologic product that is “biosimilar to” or “interchangeable with” a referenced, branded biologic product. Previously, there had been no licensure pathway for such a follow-on product. While we do not anticipate that the FDA will license a follow-on biologic for several years, given the need to generate data sufficient to demonstrate “biosimilarity” to or “interchangeability” with the branded biologic according to criteria set forth in the BPCIA, as well as the need for the FDA to implement the BPCIA’s provisions with respect to particular classes of biologic products, we cannot guarantee that our biologics will not eventually become subject to direct competition by a licensed “biosimilar.” Procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation, including allograft tissue we may use in future products, is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA. NOTA prohibits the acquisition, receipt, or other transfer of certain human organs, including bone and other human tissue, for valuable consideration within the meaning of NOTA. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable expenses associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human organs. For any future products implicating NOTA’s requirements, we would reimburse tissue banks for their expenses associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue that they would provide to us. NOTA payment allowances may be interpreted to limit the amount of costs and expenses that we may recover in our pricing for our services, thereby negatively impacting our future revenue and profitability. If we were to be found to have violated NOTA’s prohibition on the sale or transfer of human tissue for valuable consideration, we would potentially be subject to criminal enforcement sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Further, in the future, if NOTA is amended or reinterpreted, we may not be able to pass these expenses on to our customers and, as a result, our business could be adversely affected. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and may affect our business and operating results. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate and distribute products, such as the United States, France, Ireland, other EU nations and other countries, relating to the use, registration, handling, storage, disposal, recycling and human exposure to hazardous materials. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault, and environmental, health and safety laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. In the EU, where our manufacturing facilities are located, we and our suppliers are subject to EU environmental requirements such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, or REACH, regulation. In addition, we are subject to the environmental, health and safety requirements of individual European countries in which we operate such as France and Ireland. For example, in France, requirements known as the Installations Classées pour la Protection de l’Environnement regime provide for specific environmental standards related to industrial operations such as noise, water treatment, air quality and energy consumption. In Ireland, our manufacturing facilities are likewise subject to local environmental regulations, such as related to water pollution and water quality, that are administered by the Environmental Protection Agency. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements in the countries in which we operate and do not have reason to believe that we are responsible for any cleanup liabilities. In addition, certain hazardous materials are present at some of our facilities, such as asbestos, that we believe are managed in compliance with all applicable laws. We also are subject to greenhouse gas regulations in the EU and elsewhere and we believe that we are in compliance based on present emissions levels at our facilities. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with applicable environmental, health and safety laws, we cannot assure you that violations of such laws will not arise as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure, presently unknown conditions or other causes. The failure to comply with past, present or future laws, including potential laws relating to climate control initiatives, could result in the imposition of fines, third-party property damage and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production or a cessation of operations. We also expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental and health and safety laws, including laws relating to climate control initiatives, on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they could result in additional costs and may require us to change how we design, manufacture or distribute our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 Table of Contents Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that result in significant compliance costs. Our noncompliance with these regulations could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of U.S. and Dutch governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and may be unable to prevent competitors from competing against us. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. The patents we own may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that duplicate our own products or provide outcomes that are similar to ours. U.S. patents and patent applications may be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review, derivation proceedings or other proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Foreign patents may be subject to opposition, nullity actions, or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices. Any of these proceedings could result in loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws may also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our protection. Interference, reexamination, opposition proceedings, and invalidation actions such as nullity proceedings may be costly and time-consuming, and we, or the other parties from whom we might potentially license intellectual property, may be unsuccessful in defending against such proceedings. Thus, any patents that we own or might license may provide limited or no protection against competitors. We cannot be certain that any of our pending patent applications will be issued. The USPTO or foreign patent offices may reject or require a significant narrowing of the claims in our pending patent applications and those we may file in the future affecting the patents issuing from such applications. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the USPTO and the proceedings may be time-consuming, which may cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the patentability or validity of claims directed to our inventions and may result in the narrowing or cancellation of claims in issued patents. Even if any of our pending or future applications are issued, they may not provide us with significant commercial protection or any competitive advantages. Our patents and patent applications cover particular aspects of our products. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, they would likely have an adverse effect on our sales. There may be prior public disclosures that could invalidate our inventions or parts of our inventions of which we are not aware. Our ability to develop additional patentable technology is also uncertain. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws or at all, particularly in the field of medical products and procedures. We also may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may also result in the loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to other parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against other parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In the event a competitor infringes our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult and time-consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention. An adverse decision in any legal action could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to reduce the risk of this occurring, any such failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents or other intellectual property rights against a challenge. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights and protecting our products, it could harm our business and operating results. Patent law can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important principles remain unresolved. In the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions, policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents can be inconsistent. The U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the United States are interpreted. Patent law has recently been modified by the U.S. Congress, and future potential legislation could further change provisions of patent law. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents or the patents and applications of our licensors. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, there are numerous recent changes to the U.S. patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the USPTO that may have a significant impact on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights. For example, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was adopted in September 2011. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. Under the Leahy-Smith Act, the United States transitioned from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-inventor-to-file” system for patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013. With respect to patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013, if we are the first to invent but not the first to file a patent application, we may not be able to fully protect our intellectual property rights and may be found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others if we continue to operate in the absence of a patent issued to us. Many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act have recently become effective. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing these new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks, or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In addition, we hold licenses from third parties that relate to the design and manufacture of some of our products. The loss of such licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. If we, or the other parties from whom we would license intellectual property, fail to obtain and maintain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property used in our products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property used in our products, resulting in harm to our competitive business position. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patents, we seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our vendors, employees, consultants and others who may have access to proprietary information. We cannot be certain, however, that these agreements will not be breached, adequate remedies for any breach would be available or our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. We also have taken precautions to initiate safeguards to protect our information technology systems. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary intellectual property and conflicts may, nonetheless, arise regarding ownership of inventions. Such conflicts may lead to the loss or impairment of our intellectual property or to expensive litigation to defend our rights against competitors who may be better funded and have superior resources. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside clinical collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements may not be enforced or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. 39 Table of Contents Unauthorized parties also may attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. As a result, other parties may be able to use our proprietary technology or information, and our ability to compete in the marketplace would be harmed. Some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies focused on the development of orthopaedic devices. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, damage to our reputation and be a distraction to management. Our commercial technology and any future products and services that we develop could be alleged to infringe patent rights of third parties, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay significant damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. The orthopaedic medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the orthopaedic medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Non-practicing entities also have used intellectual property litigation to seek revenue from orthopaedic companies. We cannot provide assurance that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties, and as our business grows, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of a patent litigation action is often uncertain. No assurance can be given that patents containing claims covering our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas, our competitors or other parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may result in issued patents that our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. In certain situations, we may determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a party’s products or patents in litigation or other proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. Any legal proceeding involving patents or other intellectual property, regardless of outcome, could drain our financial resources and divert the time and effort of our management. A patent infringement suit or other infringement or misappropriation claim brought against us or any of our licensees may force us or any of our licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any of our licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our licensees were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be nonexclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. In any infringement lawsuit, a third party could seek to enjoin, or prevent, us from commercializing our existing or future products, or may seek damages from us, and any such lawsuit would likely be expensive for us to defend against. If we lose one of these proceedings, a court or a similar foreign governing body could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products so that they do not infringe or prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling our products. In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we receive notices from third parties alleging infringement or misappropriation of the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with the use of our products. We also may otherwise become aware of possible infringement claims against us. We routinely analyze such claims and determine how best to respond in light of the circumstances existing at the time, including the importance of the intellectual property right to us and the third party, the relative strength of our position of non-infringement or non-misappropriation and the product or products incorporating the intellectual property right at issue. 40 Table of Contents If we choose to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, we may experience difficulty in the identification or integration of any such acquisition, and our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product and service offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to identify or complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from acquisitions could negatively impact our operating results. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares The trading volume and prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to our shareholders. The trading volume and prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. During 2013, the sale price of our ordinary shares ranged from $15.17 per share to $21.87 per share, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in Europe that have listed their securities in the United States. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ordinary shares may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, and in particular variations that deviate from our projected financial information; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • announcements of divestitures or discontinuance of products or assets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our equity securities by our significant shareholders or management or sales of additional equity securities by our company; • potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and • fluctuations in market prices for our products. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ordinary shares trade. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our operating results and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares, the market price for our ordinary shares and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares, the market price for our ordinary shares likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ordinary shares to decline. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. 41 Table of Contents We are party to a registration rights agreement with certain of our shareholders and entities affiliated with our directors, including TMG Holdings Coöperatief U.A., or TMG, Vertical Fund I, L.P., Vertical Fund II, L.P. and KCH Oslo AS, which requires us to register ordinary shares held by these persons under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations, restrictions and conditions. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of the registration and sale of or the perception that registration and sales may occur of a large number of our ordinary shares. We are a Netherlands company, and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our directors or executive officers in the United States. We were formed under the laws of the Netherlands and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors are governed by Dutch laws and our articles of association. The rights of shareholders under the laws of the Netherlands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Certain of our directors and executive officers and many of our assets and some of the assets of our directors are located outside the United States. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on us or on such persons in the United States or obtain or enforce judgments from U.S. courts against us or them based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to whether Dutch courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or enforce claims for punitive damages. Under our articles of association, we indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. There is doubt, however, as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such an indemnity provision in an action brought against one of our directors in the United States under U.S. securities laws. Rights of a holder of ordinary shares are governed by Dutch law and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. We are a public limited liability company incorporated under Dutch law. The rights of holders of ordinary shares are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association. These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. For example, Dutch law does not provide for a shareholder derivative action. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares. Our articles of association prescribe that profits or reserves appearing from our annual accounts adopted by the general meeting shall be at the disposal of the general meeting. We will have power to make distributions to shareholders and other persons entitled to distributable profits only to the extent that our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called-up portion of the ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law or our articles of association. The profits must first be used to set up and maintain reserves required by law and must then be set off against certain financial losses. We may not make any distribution of profits on ordinary shares that we hold. The general meeting, whether or not upon the proposal of our board of directors, determines whether and how much of the remaining profit they will reserve and the manner and date of such distribution. All calculations to determine the amounts available for dividends will be based on our annual accounts, which may be different from our consolidated financial statements, Our statutory accounts to date have been prepared and will continue to be prepared under Dutch generally accepted accounting principles and are deposited with the Trade Register in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We have not previously declared or paid cash dividends and we have no plan to declare or pay any dividends in the near future on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business. In addition, our credit agreement contains covenants limiting our ability to pay cash dividends. Warburg Pincus (Bermuda) Private Equity IX, L.P. and its affiliates control 32.7% of our ordinary shares, and this concentration of ownership may have an effect on transactions that are otherwise favorable to our shareholders. Warburg Pincus (Bermuda) Private Equity IX, L.P. and its affiliates, or Warburg Pincus, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 32.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders could have an effect on matters requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership also may delay, deter or prevent a change in control, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these shareholders, regardless of the impact of this transaction on our other shareholders. In addition, our securityholders’ agreement gives TMG Holdings Coöperatief U.A., or TMG, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, the right to designate three directors to be nominated to our board of directors for so long as TMG beneficially owns at least 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares, two directors for so long as TMG beneficially owns at least 10% but less than 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares and one director for so long as TMG beneficially owns at least 5% but less than 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to cause the TMG designees to be elected. 42 Table of Contents We may experience deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in our internal control over financial reporting. Our business and our share price may be adversely affected if we do not remediate any deficiencies in our internal controls. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A material weakness, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, and the trading price of our ordinary shares may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our ordinary shares may decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 