Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this report when evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is subject to general economic and business factors affecting the truckload industry that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The truckload industry is highly cyclical, and our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a negative impact on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that some of the most significant of these factors are economic changes that affect supply and demand in transportation markets, such as: • recessionary economic cycles, such as the period from 2007 to 2009; • changes in customers’ inventory levels and in the availability of funding for their working capital; • excess tractor capacity in comparison with shipping demand; and • downturns in customers’ business cycles. 16 Table of Contents The risks associated with these factors are heightened when the U.S. economy is weakened. Some of the principal risks during such times, which risks we experienced during the recent recession, are as follows: • we may experience low overall freight levels, which may impair our asset utilization; • certain of our customers may face credit issues and cash flow problems, as discussed below; • freight patterns may change as supply chains are redesigned, resulting in an imbalance between our capacity and our customers’ freight demand; • customers may bid out freight or select competitors that offer lower rates from among existing choices in an attempt to lower their costs and we might be forced to lower our rates or lose freight; and • we may be forced to incur more deadhead miles to obtain loads. Economic conditions that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates and equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. As a result of depressed freight volumes and excess truckload capacity in our industry, we experienced lower miles per tractor, freight rates, and freight volumes in recent periods, all of which negatively impacted our results. Another period of declining freight rates and volumes, a prolonged recession, or general economic instability could result in further declines in our results of operations, which declines may be material. We also are subject to cost increases outside our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel prices, driver wages, interest rates, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance, revenue equipment, and healthcare for our employees. In addition, events outside our control, such as strikes or other work stoppages at our facilities or at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations, or actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements could lead to reduced economic demand, reduced availability of credit, or temporary closing of the shipping locations or U.S. borders. Such events or enhanced security measures in connection with such events could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. We operate in the highly competitive and fragmented truckload industry, and our business and results of operations may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing and other competitive pressures. We compete with many truckload carriers and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, and third-party logistics, brokerage, freight forwarding, and other transportation companies. Additionally, some of our customers may utilize their own private fleets rather than outsourcing loads to us. Some of our competitors may have greater access to equipment, a wider range of services, greater capital resources, less indebtedness, or other competitive advantages. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain or improve our profitability. These factors include the following: • many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain or expand our business or may require us to reduce our freight rates; • some of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets and they may decide to transport more of their own freight; • some shippers have reduced or may reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting core carriers as approved service providers and in some instances we may not be selected; • many customers periodically solicit bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs and this process may depress freight rates or result in a loss of business to competitors; • the continuing trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may result in more large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages, and we may have difficulty competing with them; 17 Table of Contents • advances in technology may require us to increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments; • higher fuel prices and, in turn, higher fuel surcharges to our customers may cause some of our customers to consider freight transportation alternatives, including rail transportation; • competition from freight logistics and brokerage companies may negatively impact our customer relationships and freight rates; and • economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve such carriers’ ability to compete with us. We have several major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a number of major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top 25 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 52% of our revenue; our top 10 customers, approximately 36% of our revenue; our top 5 customers, approximately 27% of our revenue; and our largest customer, Wal-Mart and its subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue. A substantial portion of our freight is from customers in the retail and discount retail sales industries. As such, our volumes are largely dependent on consumer spending and retail sales, and our results may be more susceptible to trends in unemployment and retail sales than carriers that do not have this concentration. Economic conditions and capital markets may adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent. Our customers’ financial difficulties can negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements and accounts receivable securitization agreements, especially if they were to delay or default on payments to us. Generally, we do not have contractual relationships that guarantee any minimum volumes with our customers, and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. Our dedicated business is generally subject to longer term written contracts than our non-dedicated business; however, certain of these contracts contain cancellation clauses and there is no assurance any of our customers, including our dedicated customers, will continue to utilize our services, renew our existing contracts, or continue at the same volume levels. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers, including our dedicated customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not be able to sustain the cost savings realized as part of our recent cost reduction initiatives. In 2008 and 2009, we implemented cost reduction initiatives that resulted in over $250 million of annualized cost savings, many of which we expect to result in ongoing savings. The cost savings entail several elements, including reducing our tractor fleet by 17.2%, improving fuel efficiency, improving our tractor to non-driver ratio, suspending bonuses and 401(k) matching, streamlining maintenance and administrative functions, improving safety and claims management, and limiting discretionary expenses. However, in recent periods we have experienced an increase in expenses related to headcount, compensation, and employee benefits, such as the reinstatement of our 401(k) matching contribution and the accrual of bonuses in 2010, as competition for employees and expenses relating to driving more miles has increased and the economy has improved. Our maintenance expenses also would be expected to increase to the extent average miles driven increases and our fleet ages. We may not be successful in achieving our strategy of growing our revenue. Our current goals include increasing revenue in excess of 10% over the next several years, including by growing our current service offerings. While we currently believe we can achieve these stated goals through the implementation of various business strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively and successfully implement such strategies and realize our stated goals. Our goals may be negatively affected by a failure to further penetrate our existing customer base, cross-sell our service offerings, pursue new customer opportunities, manage the operations and expenses of new or growing service offerings, or otherwise achieve growth of our service offerings. Further, we may not achieve profitability from our new service offerings. There is no assurance that successful execution of our business strategies will result in us achieving our current business goals. 18 Table of Contents We have a recent history of net losses. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009, and 2010, we incurred net losses of $146.6 million, $435.6 million (including $324.8 million to recognize deferred income taxes upon our election to be taxed as a subchapter C corporation), and $125.4 million, respectively. Achieving profitability depends upon numerous factors, including our ability to increase our trucking revenue per tractor, expand our overall volume, and control expenses. We might not achieve profitability or, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, and surcharge collection may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to factors beyond our control, such as political events, terrorist activities, armed conflicts, depreciation of the dollar against other currencies, and hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters, such as the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Fuel prices also are affected by the rising demand in developing countries, including China, and could be adversely impacted by the use of crude oil and oil reserves for other purposes and diminished drilling activity. Such events may lead not only to increases in fuel prices, but also to fuel shortages and disruptions in the fuel supply chain. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant diesel fuel cost increases, shortages, or supply disruptions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences and often costs more on the West Coast and in the Northeast, where we have significant operations. Increases in fuel costs, to the extent not offset by rate per mile increases or fuel surcharges, have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We obtain some protection against fuel cost increases by maintaining a fuel-efficient fleet and a compensatory fuel surcharge program. We have fuel surcharge programs in place with the vast majority of our customers, which have helped us offset the majority of the negative impact of rising fuel prices associated with loaded or billed miles. However, we also incur fuel costs that cannot be recovered even with respect to customers with which we maintain fuel surcharge programs, such as those associated with deadhead miles, or the time when our engines are idling. Because our fuel surcharge recovery lags behind changes in fuel prices, our fuel surcharge recovery may not capture the increased costs we pay for fuel, especially when prices are rising, leading to fluctuations in our levels of reimbursement; and our levels of reimbursement have fluctuated in the past. Further, during periods of low freight volumes, shippers can use their negotiating leverage to impose less compensatory fuel surcharge policies. There can be no assurance that such fuel surcharges can be maintained indefinitely or will be sufficiently effective. We have not used derivatives to mitigate volatility in our fuel costs, but periodically evaluate their possible use. We have contracted with some of our fuel suppliers to buy fuel at a fixed price or within banded pricing for a specific period, usually not exceeding twelve months, to mitigate the impact of rising fuel costs. However, these purchase commitments only cover a small portion of our fuel consumption and, accordingly, our results of operations could be negatively impacted by fuel price fluctuations. Increased prices for new revenue equipment, design changes of new engines, volatility in the used equipment sales market, and the failure of manufacturers to meet their sale or trade-back obligations to us could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and profitability. We have experienced higher prices for new tractors over the past few years. The resale value of the tractors and the residual values under arrangements we have with manufacturers have not increased to the same extent. In addition, the engines used in tractors manufactured in 2010 and after are subject to more stringent emissions control regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of the tractors, and resale prices or residual values may not increase to the same extent. Accordingly, our equipment costs, including depreciation expense per tractor, are expected to increase in future periods. As with any engine redesign, there is a risk that the newly designed 2010 diesel engines will have unforeseen problems. Additionally, we have not operated many of the new 2010 diesel engines, so we cannot be certain how they will operate. Many engine manufacturers are using selective catalytic reduction, or SCR, equipment to comply with the EPA’s 2010 diesel engine emissions standards. SCR equipment requires a separate urea-based liquid known as diesel exhaust fluid, which is stored in a separate tank on the truck. If the new tractors we purchase are equipped with SCR technology and require us to use diesel exhaust fluid, we will be exposed to additional costs associated with the price and availability of diesel exhaust fluid, the weight of the diesel exhaust fluid tank and SCR system, and additional maintenance costs associated with the SCR system. Additionally, we may need to train our drivers to use the new SCR equipment. Problems relating to the new 2010 engines or increased costs associated with the new 2010 engines resulting from regulatory requirements or otherwise could adversely impact our business. 19 Table of Contents A depressed market for used equipment could require us to trade our revenue equipment at depressed values or to record losses on disposal or impairments of the carrying values of our revenue equipment that is not protected by residual value arrangements. Used equipment prices are subject to substantial fluctuations based on freight demand, supply of used trucks, availability of financing, the presence of buyers for export to countries such as Russia and Brazil, and commodity prices for scrap metal. We took impairment charges related to the value of certain tractors and trailers in 2007, 2008, and the first quarter of 2010. If there is another deterioration of resale prices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Trades at depressed values and decreases in proceeds under equipment disposals and impairments of the carrying values of our revenue equipment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We lease or finance certain revenue equipment under leases that are structured with balloon payments at the end of the lease or finance term equal to the value we have contracted to receive from the respective equipment manufacturers upon sale or trade back to the manufacturers. To the extent we do not purchase new equipment that triggers the trade back obligation, or the manufacturers of the equipment do not pay the contracted value at the end of the lease term, we could be exposed to losses for the amount by which the balloon payments owed to the respective lease or finance companies exceed the proceeds we are able to generate in open market sales of the equipment. In addition, if we purchase equipment subject to a buy-back agreement and the manufacturer refuses to honor the agreement or we are unable to replace equipment at a reasonable price, we may be forced to sell such equipment at a loss. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We operate in the United States throughout the 48 contiguous states pursuant to operating authority granted by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT, in Mexico pursuant to operating authority granted by Secretarìa de Communiciones y Transportes, and in various Canadian provinces pursuant to operating authority granted by the Ministries of Transportation and Communications in such provinces. Our company drivers and owner-operators also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. The DOT is currently engaged in a rulemaking proceeding regarding drivers’ hours-of-service, and the result could negatively impact utilization of our equipment. The FMCSA was recently ordered by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to issue a proposed rule by the end of 2010 on supporting documents for hours-of-service compliance. The FMCSA submitted a proposed rule which, among other things, considers a potential reduction in the driving day from 11 hours to 10 hours and proposes additional specified break times within the 34 hour restart period which could limit driver availability. It is anticipated that a final rule will be proposed in 2011. If and when a final rule is submitted, there will be a grace period allowing companies to adjust prior to full implementation. Other agencies, such as the EPA and the DHS, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, federal, state, and municipal authorities implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time and our deadhead miles on customer orders. As a result, it is possible that we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. During 2010, the FMCSA launched CSA, a new enforcement and compliance model implementing driver standards in addition to our current standards. As discussed more fully below, CSA may reduce the number of eligible drivers and/or negatively impact our fleet safety ranking. 20 Table of Contents In addition, our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal, and handling of hazardous materials, discharge of wastewater and storm water, and with waste oil and fuel storage tanks. Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Certain of our facilities have waste oil or fuel storage tanks and fueling islands. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to cleanup costs and liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010. On May 21, 2010, President Obama signed an executive memorandum directing the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, and the EPA to develop new, stricter fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks, beginning in 2014. On October 25, 2010, the NHTSA and the EPA proposed regulations that regulate fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions beginning in 2014. In December 2008, California adopted new performance requirements for diesel trucks, with targets to be met between 2011 and 2023, and California also has adopted aerodynamics requirements for certain trailers. These regulations, as well as proposed regulations or legislation related to climate change that potentially impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gas, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases are likely to have an impact on us. The EPA has announced a finding relating to greenhouse gas emissions that may result in promulgation of greenhouse gas emission limits. Federal and state lawmakers also are considering a variety of climate-change proposals. Compliance with such regulations could increase the cost of new tractors and trailers, impair equipment productivity, and increase operating expenses. These effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the operating results that will be produced by the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. In order to reduce exhaust emissions, some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers’ behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle, or face a decrease in productivity. From time to time, various federal, state, or local taxes are increased, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our profitability. CSA could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships. Under CSA, drivers and fleets are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The proposed methodology for determining a carrier’s DOT safety rating has been expanded, and as a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. We recruit and retain a substantial number of first-time drivers, and these drivers may have a higher likelihood of creating adverse safety events under CSA. A reduction in eligible drivers or a poor fleet ranking may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers, and could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet rankings, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Although certain CSA information has been made available to carriers and the public, the current SafeStat measurement system will remain in effect until final rulemaking on CSA is completed. There is currently no current proposed rulemaking with respect to CSA but such rulemaking is anticipated sometime in 2011. Rulemaking and enforcement have already been delayed and may be subject to further change. The published results of our CSA rankings score us in the acceptable level in each safety- related category, although these scores are preliminary and are subject to change by the FMCSA. There is a possibility that a worsening of our CSA rankings could lead to an adverse impact on our DOT safety rating, but we are preparing for CSA through evaluation of existing programs and training our drivers and potential drivers on CSA standards. The FMCSA also is considering revisions to the existing rating system and the safety labels assigned to motor carriers evaluated by the DOT. We currently have a satisfactory DOT rating, which is the best available rating under the current safety rating scale. If we were to receive a conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating, it could adversely affect our business because some of our customer contracts require a satisfactory DOT safety rating, and a conditional or unsatisfactory rating could negatively impact or restrict our operations. In addition, there is a possibility that a drop to conditional status could affect our ability to self-insure for personal injury and property damage relating to the transportation of freight, which could cause our insurance costs to increase. Under the revised rating system being considered by the FMCSA, our safety rating would be evaluated more regularly, and our safety rating would reflect a more in-depth assessment of safety-based violations. 21 Table of Contents Finally, proposed FMCSA rules and practices followed by regulators may require carriers to install electronic, on-board recorders in their tractors a) if they experience unfavorable compliance with rules or receive an adverse change in safety rating or b) under an announced rulemaking which could require all carriers to equip all tractors with electronic, on-board recorders by 2015. As noted under the heading “Operations” in Item 1 above, we are already in the process of installing new Qualcomm units on our tractors, which will include electronic, on-board recorders, in conjunction with our efforts to improve efficiency and communications with drivers and owner-operators. However, such installation could cause an increase in driver turnover, adverse information in litigation, cost increases, and decreased asset utilization. Increases in driver compensation or other difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain or grow our fleet. Like many truckload carriers, from time to time we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including owner-operators, and such shortages may recur in the future. Recent driver shortages have resulted in increased hiring expenses, including recruiting and advertising. Because of the intense competition for drivers, we may face difficulty maintaining or increasing our number of drivers. Due in part to the economic recession, we reduced our driver pay in 2009. The compensation we offer our drivers and owner-operators is subject to market conditions and we have recently increased and may in future periods increase driver and owner-operator compensation, which will be more likely to the extent that economic conditions improve. In addition, like most in our industry, we suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers, especially in the first 90 days of employment. Our high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain our size or grow. We self-insure a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could significantly increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings. We self-insure a significant portion of our claims exposure and related expenses related to cargo loss, employee medical expense, bodily injury, workers’ compensation, and property damage and maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies above our limits of self-insurance. Our substantial self-insured retention of $10.0 million for bodily injury and property damage per occurrence and up to $5.0 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation claims can make our insurance and claims expense higher or more volatile. Additionally, with respect to our third-party insurance, we face the risks of increasing premiums and collateral requirements and the risk of carriers or underwriters leaving the trucking sector, which may materially affect our insurance costs or make insurance in excess of our self-insured retention more difficult to find, as well as increase our collateral requirements. We accrue the costs of the uninsured portion of pending claims based on estimates derived from our evaluation of the nature and severity of individual claims and an estimate of future claims development based upon historical claims development trends. Actual settlement of the self-insured claim liabilities could differ from our estimates due to a number of uncertainties, including evaluation of severity, legal costs, and claims that have been incurred but not reported. Due to our high self-insured amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk of being required to accrue or pay additional amounts if our estimates are revised or the claims ultimately prove to be more severe than originally assessed. Although we endeavor to limit our exposure arising with respect to such claims, we also may have exposure if carrier subcontractors under our brokerage operations are inadequately insured for any accident. Since November 1, 2010, our liability coverage has had a maximum aggregate limit of $200.0 million, while the limit was $150.0 million prior to this date. If any claim were to exceed our aggregate coverage limit, we would bear the excess, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. Our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage, or we have to increase our reserves. Insuring risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies could adversely impact our operations. We insure a significant portion of our risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Mohave and Red Rock. In addition to insuring portions of our own risk, Mohave insures certain owner-operators in exchange for an insurance premium paid by the owner-operator to Mohave. As a risk retention group, Red Rock must insure at least two operating companies; accordingly, Red Rock insures us and Central Refrigerated, a company of which Jerry Moyes and certain of his affiliates are the ultimate owners, for a portion of its auto liability claims. The insurance and reinsurance markets are subject to market pressures. Our captive insurance companies’ abilities or needs to access the reinsurance markets may involve the retention of additional risk, which could expose us to volatility in claims expenses. Additionally, an increase in the number or severity of claims for which we insure could adversely impact our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents To comply with certain state insurance regulatory requirements, cash and cash equivalents must be paid to Red Rock and Mohave as capital investments and insurance premiums to be restricted as collateral for anticipated losses. Such restricted cash is used for payment of insured claims. In the future, we may continue to insure our automobile liability risk through our captive insurance subsidiaries, which will cause the required amount of our restricted cash, as recorded on our balance sheet, or other collateral, such as letters of credit, to rise. Significant future increases in the amount of collateral required by third-party insurance carriers and regulators would reduce our liquidity and could adversely affect our results of operations and capital resources. Our wholly-owned captive insurance companies are subject to substantial government regulation. State authorities regulate our insurance subsidiaries in the states in which they do business. These regulations generally provide protection to policy holders rather than stockholders. The nature and extent of these regulations typically involve items such as: approval of premium rates for insurance, standards of solvency and minimum amounts of statutory capital surplus that must be maintained, limitations on types and amounts of investments, regulation of dividend payments and other transactions between affiliates, regulation of reinsurance, regulation of underwriting and marketing practices, approval of policy forms, methods of accounting, and filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. These regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance, limit our ability to change premiums, restrict our ability to access cash held in our captive insurance companies, and otherwise impede our ability to take actions we deem advisable. We are subject to certain risks arising from doing business in Mexico. We have a growing operation in Mexico, including through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Trans-Mex. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of Mexico, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our C-TPAT status, we may have significant border delays, which could cause our Mexican operations to be less efficient than those of competitor truckload carriers also operating in Mexico that obtain or continue to maintain C-TPAT status. We also face additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties imposed by the Mexican government, to the extent not preempted by the terms of North American Free Trade Agreement. Factors that substantially affect the operations of our business in Mexico may have a material adverse effect on our overall operating results. Our use of owner-operators to provide a portion of our tractor fleet exposes us to different risks than we face with our tractors driven by company drivers. We provide financing to certain of our owner-operators purchasing tractors from us. If we are unable to provide such financing in the future, due to liquidity constraints or other restrictions, we may experience a decrease in the number of owner-operators available to us. Further, if owner-operators operating the tractors we finance default under or otherwise terminate the financing arrangement and we are unable to find a replacement owner-operator, we may incur losses on amounts owed to us with respect to the tractor in addition to any losses we may incur as a result of idling the tractor. During times of increased economic activity, we face heightened competition for owner-operators from other carriers. To the extent our turnover increases, if we cannot attract sufficient owner-operators, or it becomes economically difficult for owner-operators to survive, we may not achieve our goal of increasing the percentage of our fleet provided by owner-operators. Pursuant to our owner-operator fuel reimbursement program, we absorb all increases in fuel costs above a certain level to protect our owner-operators from additional increases in fuel prices with respect to certain of our owner-operators. A significant increase or rapid fluctuation in fuel prices could significantly increase our purchased transportation costs due to reimbursement rates under our fuel reimbursement program becoming higher than the benefits to us under our fuel surcharge programs with our customers. Our lease contracts with our owner-operators are governed by the federal leasing regulations, which impose specific requirements on us and our owner-operators. In the past, we have been the subject of lawsuits, alleging the violation of leasing obligations or failure to follow the contractual terms. It is possible that we could be subjected to similar lawsuits in the future, which could result in liability. 23 Table of Contents If our owner-operators are deemed by regulators or judicial process to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that owner-operators in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Proposed federal legislation would make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractors, including owner-operators, as employees. Proposed legislation introduced in April 2010 would, among other things, increase the recordkeeping requirements for employers of independent contractors and heighten the penalties of employers who misclassify their employees and are found to have violated employees’ overtime and/or wage requirements. This legislation currently is being considered by committees in both the House and the Senate. Additionally, proposed legislation introduced in 2009 would abolish the current safe harbor allowing taxpayers meeting certain criteria to treat individuals as independent contractors if they are following a long-standing, recognized industry practice. This legislation also is currently being considered by committees in both the House and the Senate. Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers’ compensation, and income taxes, and a reclassification of owner-operators as employees would help states with this initiative. Further, class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us and others in our industry seeking to reclassify owner-operators as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers’ compensation and health care coverage. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. If our owner-operators are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. We are dependent on certain personnel that are of key importance to the management of our business and operations. Our success depends on the continuing services of our founder, and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Moyes. We currently do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Moyes. We believe that Mr. Moyes possesses valuable knowledge about the trucking industry and that his knowledge and relationships with our key customers and vendors would be very difficult to replicate. In addition, many of our other executive officers are of key importance to the management of our business and operations, including our President, Richard Stocking, and our Chief Financial Officer, Virginia Henkels. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our management. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our executive officers and other capable managers. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for our leadership positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Although we believe we could replace key personnel given adequate prior notice, the unexpected departure of key executive officers could cause substantial disruption to our business and operations. In addition, even if we are able to continue to retain and recruit talented personnel, we may not be able to do so without incurring substantial costs. We engage in transactions with other businesses controlled by Mr. Moyes, our Chief Executive Officer, and the interests of Mr. Moyes could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. We engage in multiple transactions with related parties. These transactions include providing and receiving freight services and facility leases with entities owned by Mr. Moyes and certain members of his family, the provision of air transportation services from an entity owned by Mr. Moyes and certain members of his family, and the acquisition of approximately 100 trailers from an entity owned by Mr. Moyes and certain members of his family in 2009. Because certain entities controlled by Mr. Moyes and certain members of his family operate in the transportation industry, Mr. Moyes’ ownership may create conflicts of interest or require judgments that are disadvantageous to stockholders in the event we compete for the same freight or other business opportunities. As a result, Mr. Moyes may have interests that conflict with our stockholders. We have adopted a policy relating to prior approval of related party transactions and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that specifically relate to prior approval for transactions with Mr. Moyes, the Moyes Affiliates, and any Moyes affiliated entities. However, we cannot assure you that the policy or these provisions will be successful in eliminating conflicts of interests. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that in the event that any of our officers or directors is also an officer or director or employee of an entity owned by or affiliated with Mr. Moyes or any of the Moyes Affiliates and acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or other corporate opportunity not involving the truck transportation industry or involving refrigerated transportation or less-than-truckload transportation, then, subject to certain exceptions, we shall not be entitled to such transaction or corporate opportunity and you should have no expectancy that such transaction or corporate opportunity will be available to us. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” 24 Table of Contents Mr. Moyes may pledge or borrow against a portion of his Class B common stock, which may also cause his interests to conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In the past, in order to fund the operations of or otherwise provide financing for some of Mr. Moyes’ other businesses, Mr. Moyes pledged substantially all of his ownership interest in our predecessor company and it is possible that the needs of these businesses in the future may cause him to sell or pledge shares of our Class B common stock. Concurrently with our IPO in December 2010, Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates completed a private placement by a newly formed, unaffiliated trust, or the Trust, of $250.0 million of its mandatory common exchange securities (or $262.3 million of its mandatory common exchange securities following the exercise by the initial purchasers of their option to purchase additional securities in January 2011), herein referred to as the “Stockholder Offering.” Subject to certain exceptions, the Trust’s securities will be exchangeable into shares of our Class A common stock or alternatively settled in cash equal to the value of those shares of Class A common stock three years following December 15, 2010, the closing date of the Stockholder Offering. We did not receive any proceeds from the Stockholder Offering. In connection with the Stockholder Offering, Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates pledged to the Trust 23.8 million shares of Class B common stock deliverable upon exchange of the Trust’s securities (or a number of shares of Class B common stock representing $262.3 million in value of shares of Class A common stock) three years following December 15, 2010, the closing of the Stockholder Offering, subject to Mr. Moyes’ and the Moyes Affiliates’ option to settle their obligations to the Trust in cash. Although Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates may settle their obligations to the Trust in cash three years following the closing date of the Stockholder Offering, any or all of the pledged shares could be converted into Class A common stock and delivered on such date in exchange for the Trust’s securities. Such pledges or sales of our common stock, or the perception that they may occur, may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock and may create conflicts of interests for Mr. Moyes. Although our board of directors has limited the right of employees or directors to pledge more than 20% of their family holdings to secure margin loans pursuant to our securities trading policy, there can be no assurance that such policy will not be changed under circumstances deemed by the board to be appropriate. Mr. Moyes, our Chief Executive Officer, has substantial ownership interests in and guarantees related to several other businesses and real estate investments, which may expose Mr. Moyes to significant lawsuits or liabilities. In addition to being our Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder, Mr. Moyes is the principal owner of, and serves as chairman of the board of directors of Central Refrigerated, a temperature controlled truckload carrier, Central Freight Lines, Inc., an LTL carrier, SME Industries, Inc., a steel erection and fabrication company, Southwest Premier Properties, L.L.C. a real estate management company, and is involved in other business endeavors in a variety of industries and has made substantial real estate investments. Although Mr. Moyes devotes the substantial majority of his time to his role as Chief Executive Officer of Swift, the breadth of Mr. Moyes’ other interests may place competing demands on his time and attention. In addition, in one instance of litigation arising from another business owned by Mr. Moyes, Swift was named as a defendant even though Swift was not a party to the transactions that were the subject of the litigation. It is possible that litigation relating to other businesses owned by Mr. Moyes in the future may result in Swift being named as a defendant and, even if such claims are without merit, that we will be required to incur the expense of defending such matters. In many instances, Mr. Moyes has given personal guarantees to lenders to the various businesses and real estate investments in which he has an ownership interest and in certain cases, the underlying loans are in default. In order to satisfy these obligations, Mr. Moyes intends to use a portion of the net proceeds he will receive from the Stockholder Offering and to sell various investments he holds. If Mr. Moyes is otherwise unable to raise the necessary amount of proceeds to satisfy his obligations to such lenders, he may be subject to significant lawsuits. We depend on third parties, particularly in our intermodal and brokerage businesses, and service instability from these providers could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer intermodal and brokerage services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and customer relationships. Our intermodal business utilizes railroads and some third-party drayage carriers to transport freight for our customers. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads with which we have or in the future may have relationships could reduce or eliminate our ability to provide intermodal services in certain traffic lanes and is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services. Furthermore, railroads increase shipping rates as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and reduce or eliminate our ability to offer intermodal services. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate additional contracts with railroads to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain multiple providers, which could limit our ability to provide this service. 25 Table of Contents Our brokerage business is dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. These third-party providers seek other freight opportunities and may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties, or increases in the prices we must pay to secure such services, could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We are dependent on computer and communications systems, and a systems failure could cause a significant disruption to our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently maintain our computer system at our Phoenix, Arizona headquarters, along with computer equipment at each of our terminals. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, Internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operations should a disaster occur through redundant computer systems and networks and backup systems from an alternative location in Phoenix, this alternative location is subject to some of the same interruptions as may affect our Phoenix headquarters. In the event of a significant system failure, our business could experience significant disruption, which could impact our results of operations. Efforts by labor unions could divert management attention and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although our only collective bargaining agreement exists at our Mexican subsidiary, Trans-Mex, we always face the risk that our employees could attempt to organize a union. To the extent our owner-operators were re-classified as employees, the magnitude of this risk would increase. Congress or one or more states could approve legislation significantly affecting our businesses and our relationship with our employees, such as the proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. Any attempt to organize by our employees could result in increased legal and other associated costs. In addition, if we entered into a collective bargaining agreement, the terms could negatively affect our costs, efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations. We may not be able to execute or integrate future acquisitions successfully, which could cause our business and future prospects to suffer. Historically, a key component of our growth strategy has been to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. Although we currently do not have any acquisition plans, we expect to consider acquisitions from time to time in the future. If we succeed in consummating future acquisitions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may be negatively affected because: • some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenue, earnings, or cash flows; • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or otherwise exceed our estimates; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical, or financial problems; • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management, and divert our resources; • we may experience difficulties operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience; • there is a potential for loss of customers, employees, and drivers of any acquired company; • we may incur additional indebtedness; and • if we issue additional shares of stock in connection with any acquisitions, ownership of existing stockholders would be diluted. 26 Table of Contents Seasonality and the impact of weather and other catastrophic events affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. At the same time, operating expenses increase and fuel efficiency declines because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims, and higher equipment repair expenditures. We also may suffer from weather-related or other events such as tornadoes, hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, and explosions. These events may disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, disrupt freight shipments or routes, affect regional economies, destroy our assets, or adversely affect the business or financial condition of our customers, any of which could harm our results or make our results more volatile. Our total assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles. If we determine that these items have become impaired in the future, net income could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded goodwill of $253.3 million and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $181.0 million primarily as a result of the 2007 Transactions. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification, Topic 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other,” or Topic 350, we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to our results of operations. Our evaluations in 2010 and 2009 produced no indication of impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. Based on the results of our evaluation in 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $17.0 million related to the decline in fair value of our Mexico freight transportation reporting unit resulting from the deterioration in truckload industry conditions as compared with the estimates and assumptions used in our original valuation projections used at the time of the partial acquisition of Swift Transportation in 2007. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive, and we will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing, and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock. As a public company, SEC rules require that our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2011, to attest to our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. This process will require significant documentation of policies, procedures, and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. This process will involve considerable time and expense, may strain our internal resources, and have an adverse impact on our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and reputation. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. These sales also could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 27 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, we have 73,300,000 outstanding shares of Class A common stock, excluding 6,050,000 Class A shares issued upon exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option in January 2011 and assuming no exercise of options outstanding as of the date of this report and 60,116,713 outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which are convertible into an equal number of shares of Class A common stock. All of the Class A shares are freely tradable, except that any shares purchased by “affiliates” (as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act), only may be sold in compliance with the limitations described in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Taking into consideration the effect of the lock-up agreements described below and the provisions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act, the remaining shares of our common stock will be available for sale in the public market as follows: • 73,300,000 shares are eligible for sale at December 31, 2010 (as well as an additional 6,050,000 Class A shares issued upon the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option in January 2011); and • 60,116,713 shares will be eligible for sale upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements described below. We, our directors, executive officers, and the Moyes Affiliates have entered into lock-up agreements in connection with our initial public offering on December 15, 2010. The lock-up agreements expire 180 days after December 15, 2010, the date of the offering, subject to extension upon the occurrence of specified events. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC may in their sole discretion and at any time without notice, release all or any portion of the securities subject to lock-up agreements. All of our outstanding Class B common stock is currently held by Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates on an aggregate basis. If such holders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock or impede our ability to raise future capital. In connection with the Stockholder Offering, Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates pledged to the Trust 23.8 million shares of Class B common stock deliverable upon exchange of the Trust’s securities (or a number of shares of Class B common stock representing $262.3 million in value of shares of Class A common stock) three years following December 15, 2010, the closing of the Stockholder Offering, subject to Mr. Moyes’ and the Moyes Affiliates’ option to settle their obligations to the Trust in cash. Although Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates have the option to settle their obligations to the Trust in cash three years following the closing date of the Stockholder Offering, any or all of the pledged shares could be converted into shares of Class A common stock and delivered upon exchange of the Trust’s securities. Any such shares delivered upon exchange will be freely tradable under the Securities Act. The sale of a large number of securities in the public market could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock. In addition, we have an aggregate of up to 12,000,000 shares of Class A common stock reserved for future issuances under our 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Issuances of Class A common stock to our directors, executive officers, and employees pursuant to the exercise of stock options under our employee benefits arrangements will dilute your interest in us. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock. We currently do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends and other distributions in cash, stock, or property by Swift in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations, contractual restrictions, including restrictive covenants contained in a new post-offering senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our new senior second priority secured notes, capital requirements, and other factors. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could harm our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive. Historically, we have depended on cash from operations, borrowings from banks and finance companies, issuance of notes, and leases to expand the size of our terminal network and revenue equipment fleet and to upgrade our revenue equipment. We expect that capital expenditures to replace and upgrade our revenue equipment will increase from their low levels in 2009 to maintain or lower our current average company tractor age, to upgrade our trailer fleet that has increased in age over our historical average age, and as justified by increased freight volumes, to expand our company tractor fleet, tractors we lease to owner-operators, and our intermodal containers. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 28 Table of Contents There continues to be concern over the stability of the credit markets. If the credit markets weaken, our business, financial results, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence declines and domestic spending decreases. If the credit markets erode, we may not be able to access our current sources of credit and our lenders may not have the capital to fund those sources. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or issue debt or equity securities in the future to refinance existing debt, fund working capital requirements, make investments, or for general corporate purposes. As a result of contractions in the credit market, as well as other economic trends in the credit market, we may not be able to secure financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, the indentures for our new senior second priority secured notes provide that we may only incur additional indebtedness if, after giving effect to the new incurrence, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00 is met or the indebtedness qualifies under certain specifically enumerated carve-outs and debt incurrence baskets, including a provision that permits us to incur capital lease obligations of up to $350 million at any one time. As of December 31, 2010, we had a fixed charge coverage ratio of 3.38:1.00. However, there can be no assurance that we can maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio over 2.00:1.00, in which case our ability to incur additional indebtedness under our existing credit arrangements to satisfy our ongoing capital requirements would be limited as noted above, although we believe the combination of our expected cash flows, financing available through allowed additional indebtedness and operating leases which are not subject to debt incurrence baskets, the capital lease basket, and the funds available to us through our accounts receivable sale facility and our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our expected capital expenditures for the remainder 2011. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms in the future, or maintain compliance with financial and other covenants in our financing agreements in the future, we may face liquidity constraints or be forced to enter into less favorable financing arrangements or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods of time, any of which could reduce our profitability. Additionally, such events could impact our ability to provide services to our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, current operations, results of operations, and potential investments. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our new senior secured credit facility and our new senior secured second-lien notes. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness outstanding was approximately $1,945.6 million and our total stockholders’ deficit was $83.2 million. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry, or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, including our new senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior secured notes; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, market conditions, or in the economy, and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. 29 Table of Contents Our Chief Executive Officer and the Moyes Affiliates control a large portion of our stock and have substantial control over us, which could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Moyes, and the Moyes Affiliates beneficially own approximately 45.1% of our outstanding common stock including 100% of our Class B common stock. On all matters with respect to which our stockholders have a right to vote, including the election of directors, the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and the holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to two votes per share. All outstanding shares of Class B common stock are owned by Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates and are convertible to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis at the election of the holders thereof or automatically upon transfer to someone other than Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates. This voting structure gives Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates approximately 60.2% of the voting power of all of our outstanding stock. Furthermore, due to our dual class structure, Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates are able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even though they own less than 50% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our Class A common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Also, these stockholders can exert significant influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations, or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. Because Mr. Moyes and the Moyes Affiliates control a majority of the voting power of our common stock, we qualify as a “controlled company” as defined by the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and, as such, we may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of such stock exchange. We do not intend to utilize these exemptions, but may choose to do so in the future. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The indentures governing our new senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our new senior second priority secured notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, which limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • prepay or defease specified debt; • consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, our new senior secured credit facility requires compliance with certain financial tests and ratios, including leverage and interest coverage ratios, and maximum capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions, and, in the case of our $400.0 million revolving line of credit under our new senior secured credit facility and our current accounts receivable sale agreement (the “2008 RSA”), permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our new senior secured credit facility (including with respect to our maintenance of financial ratios thereunder), the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we 30 Table of Contents were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our new senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our new senior secured credit facility were to accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay all amounts borrowed thereunder as well as our new senior second priority secured notes. In addition, our 2008 RSA includes certain restrictive covenants and cross default provisions with respect to our new senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our new senior second priority secured notes. Failure to comply with these covenants and provisions may jeopardize our ability to continue to sell receivables under the facility and could negatively impact our liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 