ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risk factors related to Parametric Sound. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, expect additional losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses since our spin-off in September 2010 and expect additional losses until we achieve revenues and resulting margins to offset our operating costs. We expect to expend significant resources on personnel, consultants, intellectual property protection, research and development, marketing, production and administration. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 was $4,462,182 and $1,484,458, respectively. Our ability to achieve future profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many outside our control. Failure to achieve profitability or sustain profitability, if achieved, may require us to obtain additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock or be dilutive. Focusing our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property through licensing is a relatively recent initiative and may not result in anticipated benefits. During fiscal 2012 we announced that we were focusing our efforts on leveraging the value of our intellectual property by seeking to license our technology to established industry partners in target markets and growing our product business in digital signage and related markets. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our licensing strategy, making it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, our intellectual property licensing strategy may place increased demands on our personnel and divert resources from product sales and product operations adversely affecting future results. We also may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our strategies. Our licensing strategy is untested, subject to risk and there is no assurance companies will license our technology or produce licensable products or pay license fees sufficient to sustain our operations. Our licensing strategy is untested and we have no reportable licensing revenue to date. There can be no assurance that consumer electronic product companies we have targeted or will target will license our technology or, if so, produce licensable products. Our plans and ability to license for particular applications may require additional product development and there can be no assurance we can demonstrate performance acceptable to prospective licensees. The markets for consumer electronic products in which our technology is intended are intensely competitive and price sensitive. This could place pressure on licensing fees and limit our ability to exploit our technology. We also risk that licensees will inaccurately report licensing royalties, if any, or that they or others will make unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and continued difficult economic circumstances in our industry or a reduction in spending by customers could adversely affect our operating results. The electronics industry in general has historically been characterized by a high degree of volatility and is subject to substantial and unpredictable variations resulting from changing business cycles. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular conditions that impact discretionary consumer spending. The audio products sector of the electronics industry has and may continue to experience a slowdown in sales, which adversely impacts our ability to generate revenues and impacts the results of our future operations. The current tight credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in an absence of orders or spending for our products as well as create supplier disruptions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the adverse economic conditions and disruptions in financial markets and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. We purchase a number of key components and subassemblies from foreign suppliers. Consequently, we are subject to the impact economic conditions can have on such suppliers and subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases in our cost of purchasing these items could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. 16 A significant portion of our revenue has been derived from a few large customers and sales of one product category. We are dependent on one core technology and product category and limited products to generate revenues. We cannot assure you that these or other future products will achieve customer acceptance to attain a level of sales to support our operating costs. The vast majority of our product sales are generated from a small number of customers and we have no reported licensing revenue to date. Three customers accounted for 30%, 16% and 16% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012 and two customers accounted for 46% and 35% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011. We do not have long-term agreements with these or other customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us. The loss of any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, the uncertainty of product orders can make it difficult to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with actual sales, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. We must develop a larger customer base or generate license revenues in order to grow our business. To grow our business we must develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill increased orders from both prior and new customers. Our sales to date have been limited to a few customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop a larger customer base. Further, even if we continue to retain prior customers and obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase sufficient quantities of our products at prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling orders. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate any future license revenues. Our ability to increase sales of our products or generate license revenues depends on a number of factors, including: •our ability to timely demonstrate or manufacture reliable products that have the features required by our customers; •our ability to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to sales of our products or licensing of our technology; •our ability to develop and expand into new markets for our audio products and technology; and •our ability to develop international product distribution or licensing directly or through partners. Errors, limitations or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards, product injury claims or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, increased warranty costs or damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Our technology is substantially different from proven, mass-produced sound transducer designs. Any performance limitations, defects or errors in the operation of our products could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources, increased customer service, adverse regulatory actions and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at some point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, injury or other loss to customers, and may injure our reputation and increase our warranty or service costs. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. Defects and/or warranty costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. End-users of our products could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries including damage to hearing. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us. We have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall, and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, cause a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources adversely affecting our financial results. 17 We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Since our products include ultrasonic emissions along with the acoustic output, customers or others could claim damage to human hearing or human health irrespective if the product is used properly or improperly, such as when the product is used at extreme close ranges for long periods of exposure. A person claiming injury in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. While we have product liability insurance, it may be too costly for us or may be unavailable and it may be insufficient to pay any claims. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our processes, products or services may become obsolete. The directed audio market is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Although we will continue to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, research and discoveries by others may make our processes, products or services less attractive or even obsolete. Our efforts may never demonstrate the feasibility of our new electronics processing and emitter technology for broad-based product applications. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including without limitation unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. While we believe we have overcome many of the technical problems traditionally associated with parametric sound reproduction, these technical problems or new technical problems may result in delays and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete, or if we experience significant delays in completing development, manufacturing and licensing of commercial or consumer applications using our new technology, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. We cannot predict our future operating results. Our quarterly and annual results will likely be subject to fluctuations caused by many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one or more of these factors, including those listed below, could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: •our ability to supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors, VARs or OEMs or to license our technologies; •market acceptance of, and changes in demand for, our products or our customers’ products; •gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; •unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; •the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products; •fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; •timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; •product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; •unpredictable warranty costs associated with our products; •installation or order delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or production delays by us or our suppliers; 18 •general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; •general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and •general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we intend to offer. Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies and, therefore, adversely affect our future operating results. Our expenses may vary from period to period, which could affect quarterly results and our stock price. If we incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we do not experience increased revenue, our results of operations will be adversely affected and we may incur larger losses than anticipated for that quarter. Factors that could cause our expenses to fluctuate from period to period include: •the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; •tooling, manufacturing and production working capital costs; •investments and costs of maintaining or protecting our intellectual property; •the extent of marketing and sales efforts to promote our products and technologies; and •the timing of personnel and consultant hiring. We may need additional capital for growth. We may need additional capital to support continued operations and our future growth. While we intend to rely on existing resources and funds generated from operations, these may not be sufficient. We also may not be able to generate sufficient funds from operations in the future. Principal factors affecting the availability of internally generated funds include: • failure of product sales and licensing proceeds sufficient to meet planned projections; • consumer spending levels impacting the sale of our products or those of any future licensees; • working capital requirements to support business growth; • our ability to control spending; • introduction of new competing technologies; • product mix and effect on margins; and • acceptance of our existing and future products and technologies in existing and new markets. Should we require additional financing in the future, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional capital if needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our potential for rapid growth and our entry into new markets make it difficult for us to evaluate our current and future business prospects, and we may be unable to effectively manage any growth associated with these new markets, which may increase the risk of your investment and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We believe the development of our new technology, including electronics processing and emitter improvements, will enable us to enter targeted new markets and to expand our presence in our current product markets. Because these improvements are relatively new, we may be unable to evaluate our future prospects in our current market and in new markets, particularly in light of our goals to continually grow our existing and new customer base, expand our product offerings, integrate complementary businesses and enter additional new markets. In addition, our potential growth, recent product introductions and entry into new markets may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our executive management, personnel and systems, and our operational, administrative and financial resources may be inadequate. We may also not be able to effectively manage any expanded operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis, particularly if the number of customers using our products and services significantly increase or their demands and needs change as our business expands. If we are unable to manage expanded operations effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and more established electronic and sound system manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and larger facilities than us, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. The life cycles of our technologies are difficult to estimate. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our technologies do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot maintain and obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop similar technology and the agreements we enter into to protect our proprietary rights may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection of our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position could be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection, or may be too costly to enforce protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products may be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in these countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. 20 We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, resulting in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: •cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; •obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and •redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our technology is subject to government regulation, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations and is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, as well as the Federal Communications Commission. Although we believe we are in compliance with applicable FDA and FCC regulations, in the event of certain unanticipated defects in our products, a customer or we may be required to comply with governmental requirements to remedy the defect and/or notify consumers of the problem. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our parametric sound technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. Should we seek medical device marketing clearance we could face significant regulatory issues that could bar or delay product marketing or limit indicated uses. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that there will not be limitations imposed on indicated uses and claims. Should we seek medical device marketing clearance we intend to rely on the premarket notification process for FDA clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. This provision allows many medical devices to avoid human clinical trials if the product is “substantially equivalent” to another device already on the market. Premarket notification requires a new device to be compared for safety, effectiveness and technological characteristics to another device (or multiple devices) already on the market. A successful 510(k) submission results in FDA clearance for commercialization. If approved, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review, regulation and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. 21 To market any products internationally, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval, including the risk that our products may not be approved for use under all of the circumstances requested, which could limit the uses of our products and adversely impact potential product sales, and that such clearance or approval may require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We rely on outside suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products. Our products have a number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on one piezo-film supplier to provide expertise and materials used in our proprietary emitters and one supplier for a majority of our plastic and metal parts from tooling owned by us. If shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain "conflict minerals" for issuers for which such "conflict minerals" are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as "3TG." Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. If we are not able to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, we would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on members of our supply chain. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead, cadmium and other substances. We do not expect that the impact of these environmental laws and other similar legislation adopted in the U.S. and other countries will have a substantial unfavorable impact on our business. However, the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. Our business is substantially dependent on our Executive Chairman, Kenneth F. Potashner, and our President, Elwood G. Norris, and other key personnel. The loss of either of Mr. Potashner or Mr. Norris or any of these key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies like ours is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products, attract customers and meet customer shipments. 22 Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC require us to include in our Form 10-K a report by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that out internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2012, it is possible that material weaknesses will be identified in the future. In addition, components of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on its stock price. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, XBRL interactive SEC filings, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies and often, increased costs to comply. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. The reliability of market data included in our public filings is uncertain. Since we operate in a rapidly changing market, we have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, include market data from industry publications and our own internal estimates in some of the documents we file with the SEC. This data may be inaccurate, incomplete or unreliable. Industry publications generally state that the information contained in these publications has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that its accuracy and completeness is not guaranteed. Although we believe that the market data used in our filings with the SEC is and will be reliable, it has not been and will not be independently verified. Similarly, internal company estimates, while believed by us to be reliable, have not been and will not be verified by any independent sources. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock has traded sporadically and is expected to experience significant price and volume volatility in the future that substantially increases the risk of loss to persons owning our common stock. There was no public market for our common stock prior to our spin-off in September 2010. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. Prior to March 22, 2012, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, where the shares of our common stock were historically sporadically or “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. On March 22, 2012, our common stock began listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, but there can be no assurances that our common stock will be actively traded. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and the possible price volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock when you desire to do so. The inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our common stock may suffer greater declines because of its price volatility. 23 In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • developments concerning our sound reproduction technologies; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • changes in personnel within our company; and • other events or factors and general economic and market conditions. Our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market as low as $3.86 and as high at $11.74 during the period from March 22, 2012 through September 30, 2012. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of shares our common stock. There is no guarantee that our shares will continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Shares of our common stock became listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market on March 22, 2012. We may not be able to meet the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or there may not be enough brokers interested in making a market for our stock to allow us to continue to list thereon. Failure to satisfy any continued listing requirements could lead to the receipt of a deficiency notice from Nasdaq and ultimately to a delisting from trading of our common stock. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, among other things, this could result in a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with Nasdaq and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities, greater difficulty in obtaining financing and possible breaches of certain contractual obligations. Therefore, it may be difficult to sell your shares of common stock if you desire or need to sell them. It is possible that an active and liquid trading market in our securities may never develop or, if one does develop, that the market will continue. Sales of common stock by affiliates or sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may depress the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders including affiliates may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. As of September 30, 2012, we had outstanding options granted to our employees, directors and consultants to purchase 1,168,500 shares of our common stock, and had outstanding warrants issued to investors to purchase 525,339 shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2012, the exercise prices for the options and common stock warrants ranged from $1.50 to $10.98 per share. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock and could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain equity financing. Any substantial sale the sale of these shares in the market or sales of shares pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of your common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Preferred stock terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The declaration and amount of future dividends, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors our Board deems relevant. 24 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 