Item 1A. Risk Factors General economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, may adversely affect the Company’s results. The Company’s revenues may be affected by U.S. and international market conditions and consumer confidence. In particular, the Company’s marine businesses are cyclical and are dependent upon economic conditions and the overall level of consumer confidence. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence in any of the regions in which the Company competes could reduce the Company’s sales and adversely affect its business and financial results. The Company’s profitability may suffer as a result of competitive product offerings and pricing pressures. Across all the Company’s businesses, the introduction of lower-priced alternative products by other companies can hurt the Company’s competitive position. The Company is constantly subject to competitive pressures, particularly from Asian competitors in the outboard marine engine market worldwide and in Brunswick New Technologies’ land-based navigation electronics business. Such competitive pricing pressures may limit the Company’s ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. The Company’s growth depends on the successful introduction of new product offerings. The Company’s ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products, gain market acceptance of new products or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, the timing of market entry and pricing of the Company’s new products are critical, especially for Brunswick New Technologies’ land-based navagation products, which generally have short product life cycles. Managing the transition to lower-margin products, particularly in its Marine Engine segment, is critical to the Company’s operating and financial results. The Company has historically derived a significant portion of its earnings from sales of higher-margin products, especially in its Marine Engine business. The Marine Engine segment is now completing a transition to manufacturing primarily low-emission four-stroke engines, which have lower margins. The Company is addressing this margin pressure by relocating some manufacturing to lower-cost areas. The Company’s inability to achieve lower-cost manufacturing, as well as increased competition in the product lines affected, could adversely impact the Company’s future operating and financial results. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected if the Company is unable to maintain effective distribution. Because the Company sells the majority of its products through third parties such as dealers and distributors, the financial health of these dealers and distributors is critical to the Company’s continued success. The Company’s results can be negatively affected if dealers and distributors experience higher operating costs that can result from rising interest rates, higher rents, labor costs and taxes, and compliance with regulations. In addition, a substantial portion of the Company’s marine engine sales are made to independent boatbuilders. Accordingly, the results of the Company’s Marine Engine segment can be influenced by the financial health of these independent boatbuilders, which can depend on the boatbuilders’ access to capital, ability to develop new products and ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. 8 Inventory adjustments by the Company’s major dealers, retailers and independent boatbuilders adversely affect the Company’s operating margins. If the Company’s dealers and retailers, as well as independent boatbuilders who purchase the Company’s marine engine products, adjust their inventories downward in response to weakness in retail demand, wholesale demand for the Company’s products diminishes. In turn, the Company must reduce production, which results in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs and thus lower margins. Inventory reduction by dealers and customers can hurt the Company’s short-term sales and results of operations and limit the Company’s ability to meet increased demand when economic conditions improve. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative impact on marine and retail bowling center revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant impact on the Company’s operating and financial results, especially in the marine and bowling retail businesses. Sales of the Company’s marine products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of the Company’s distribution channel, as occurred in 2004 and 2005 on the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Since many of the Company’s boats are used extensively on reservoirs, the viability of reservoirs for boating is important to the Boat segment. In addition, severely inclement weather on weekends and holidays, particularly during the winter months, can adversely affect patronage of the Company’s bowling centers and, therefore, revenues in the bowling retail business. The Company's ability to integrate acquisitions successfully may affect its financial results. Since 2001, the Company has acquired a number of new businesses and entered into joint ventures, and it intends to continue to acquire additional businesses to complement its existing product portfolio. The Company’s success in effectively integrating these operations, including their financial, operational and distribution practices and systems, will affect the contribution of these businesses to the Company’s consolidated results. There can be no assurance that any future acquisitions or joint ventures will be beneficial to the Company. Limited access to water can inhibit the Company’s ability to grow. For various reasons, including environmental restrictions, permitting and zoning requirements, and the increasing cost of and competition for waterfront property, access to water for boating, as well as marina and storage space, is limited in some regions. The Boat and Marine Engine segments can be adversely affected in areas that do not have sufficient marina and storage capacity to satisfy demand. The Company’s marine engines may be subject to more stringent environmental regulations. The State of California has adopted regulations requiring catalytic converters on the Company’s sterndrive and inboard engines by January 1, 2008. The Company expects to comply fully with these regulations, but compliance will increase the cost of these products. Other environmental regulatory bodies in the United States or other countries also may impose higher emissions standards in the future for the Company’s engines. These standards could require catalytic converters, which would increase the cost of the Company's engines. Any increase in the cost of the Company’s engines or unforeseen delays in compliance with environmental regulations affecting these products could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Higher energy costs can adversely affect the Company’s results and can hurt demand for the Company’s products, especially in the marine and bowling center businesses. Higher energy costs increase the Company’s operating costs at its manufacturing facilities and the cost of shipping its products to customers. In addition, products in the Company’s Marine Engine segment are powered by gasoline or diesel fuel, and products in the Company’s Boat segment have gasoline or diesel engines. Any increase in the price of petroleum-based fuel, or the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could reduce demand for the Company’s marine products. Finally, because heating, air conditioning and electricity comprise a significant part of the cost of operating a bowling center, any increase in the price of energy could adversely affect the operating margins of Brunswick bowling centers. Higher interest rates can reduce demand, especially for marine products. The Company’s marine products, particularly boats, are often financed. Rising interest rates can have an adverse effect on dealers’ and consumers’ ability to finance boat purchases, which can adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products and impact the profitability of the Company’s finance activities, including Brunswick Acceptance Company. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect the Company’s growth rate. Because the Company derives approximately 35 percent of its revenues from sales outside the United States, its ability to realize projected growth rates can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies. The Company manufactures its products primarily in the United States, and the costs of its products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, although manufacturing and sourcing outside the United States are increasing. A strong U.S. dollar can make the Company’s products less price-competitive relative to local products in international markets. 9 The Company’s business is vulnerable to adverse international conditions. As the Company continues to focus on international growth, including in developing countries, and on lower-cost manufacturing outside the United States, it will become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability, adverse economic conditions and the possibility of terrorism, insurrection and military conflict around the world. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 