Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results, and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. The United States economy has been gradually improving but unemployment is still elevated, and another economic downturn impacting our geographic market areas would adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession beginning in 2008 and many of the effects of that recession are expected to continue in 2012. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve greatly in the near future. Furthermore, our primary market areas in southern Georgia and northern and central Florida have experienced unemployment rates higher than the national average. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans for many lenders. Stock prices for financial institutions and their holding companies have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for those entities to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or in stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. Our expansion efforts, particularly through new and acquired branches, may not be successful if we fail to manage our growth effectively. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand our branch network into communities within or adjacent to Georgia and Florida markets in which we currently conduct business. In February 2011, we acquired four branches west of Savannah, Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction subject to a loss-sharing agreement. In August 2011, we acquired one branch in Statesboro, Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction subject to a loss-sharing agreement. We intend to continue to pursue a growth strategy for our business. Operating branches outside of our original southwest Georgia market and beyond our current market areas may subject us to additional risk, including the local risks related to the new market areas, management of employees from a distance, additional credit risks, logistical operational issues and management time constraints. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities, and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 32 We have engaged in three FDIC-assisted transactions with two subject to loss-sharing agreements and may engage in more such transactions in the future, which could present additional risks to our financial condition and earnings. We have engaged in three FDIC-assisted acquisitions with two subject to loss-sharing agreements. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks, even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. As is typical in the acquisition of a failed financial institution, many of the loans acquired in these acquisitions were non-performing and had poor documentation, including a lack of current financial information on borrowers and of current evidence of collateral value. In December 2009, we acquired a failed bank in southeast Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction, including $37.5 million in loans. This FDIC-assisted transaction did not involve a loss-share agreement pursuant to which the FDIC covers portions of the losses incurred or the assets acquired. We did, however, receive a $15.0 million purchase discount paid by the FDIC. These loans are carried on our books at fair value, based on an estimate of future cash flows, which we review and evaluate quarterly and, under GAAP. Because of the condition and terms of these loans, the actual amount recognized by us on these assets could differ materially from this fair value, and we also anticipate incurring foreclosure and collection expenses on certain of these loans over the next five years, which will increase our non-interest expense. Therefore, we may incur losses on this acquired loan portfolio. In February 2011, we acquired a failed bank in east Georgia with $145 million in loans, and in August 2011, we acquired a failed bank in southeast Georgia with $99 million in loans. In each of these transactions, we entered into a loss-share agreement under which the FDIC will reimburse us for 80% of the losses on covered loans and other real estate owned. These loss-share agreements require us to follow specific servicing and reporting procedures. Failure to properly follow these procedures or other breach of the loss-share agreements by us could result in the loss of the FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, we had an FDIC loss-share receivable of $83.9 million associated with our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC. This receivable always reflects the present value of our expected losses related to FDIC-assisted acquisitions plus reimbursable expenses less recoveries. The receivable is adjusted for improvements in cash flow by reducing the receivable through negative accretion. Conversely, if losses are greater than anticipated, the receivable would be increased. In the current economic environment, we expect to be presented with more opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks through FDIC-assisted transactions. However, these acquisitions are structured in a manner that does not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition, including preparing for integration of an acquired institution. Therefore, we may face additional risks, including the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. Moreover, even though we are inclined to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction, we can offer no assurances that we would be successful in acquiring the financial institution or assets that we are seeking. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher than anticipated loan charge-offs on assets acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios that we have acquired in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. 33 Although we have entered into two loss-share agreements with the FDIC providing a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired in connection with our two 2011 FDIC-assisted transactions will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss-share agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss-sharing agreements will not be reimbursable by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Our business may be affected adversely by credit risk associated with residential property. As of December 31, 2011, residential mortgage loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, totaled $155.9 million, or 27.81%, of total loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values resulting from the downturn in local housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and has increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. In addition, borrowers seeking to sell their homes may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and sales prices, coupled with high levels of unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, which would adversely affect our capital and liquidity and could damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater impact on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions that have more diversified loan portfolios. We are subject to credit risks in connection with the concentration of adjustable rate loans in our portfolio. Adjustable rate loans totaled $107.2 million, or 19.12%, of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable-rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, declining housing prices may prevent refinancing or a sale of the home because borrowers may then have insufficient equity in their homes. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be negatively impacted. At December 31, 2011, our nonperforming assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, nonperforming troubled debt restructurings and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $10.4 million, which was a decrease of $3.2 million or 23.0% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2010. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs including taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, potentially distracting them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities. 34 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products, and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses, excluding loans acquired through FDIC-assisted acquisitions, was 1.72% of gross loans, excluding loans acquired through FDIC-assisted acquisitions, and 106.40% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2011, compared to 2.04% of gross loans, excluding loans acquired through FDIC-assisted acquisitions, and 81.79% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2010. Our emphasis on originating commercial and consumer real estate and commercial and industrial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase our originations of these loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, resulting in decreased earnings. Our regulators and external auditor periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. These increases in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as other real estate owned (“OREO”), and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by our regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by decreases in interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2011, the change in net unrealized gain on securities available for sale from the level at December 31, 2010 was an increase of $5.5 million. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected significantly by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. 35 Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher-yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our portfolio of available-for-sale securities totaled $259.0 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $3.6 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $1.2 million, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $2.4 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s internal simulation model indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by 0.3% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is increasing the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. We offer adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. The availability of lower rates on fixed-rate loans would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, these adjustable-rate assets may prepay. At December 31, 2011, 19.12% of our loan portfolio consisted of adjustable-rate loans, compared to 22.11% at December 31, 2010. We also are managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. Customer demand is primarily for short-term certificates of deposit. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term, fixed-rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. We are utilizing FHLB advances and repurchase agreements to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or entering into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities. FHLB advances and repurchase agreements are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability. We face risks related to covenants in our loan sales to investors and secondary mortgage market conditions. Our agreements with investors to sell our loans generally contain covenants that require us to repurchase loans under certain circumstances, including some delinquencies, or to return premiums paid by those investors if the loans are paid off early. If we are required to repurchase sold loans under these covenants, they may be deemed troubled loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision changes, which could impact our earnings and asset quality ratios adversely. We did not incur any losses in conjunction with these agreements in 2011. Our ability to sell loans on the secondary mortgage market is impacted by interest rate changes and investor demand or expected return. If this market becomes less liquid, we may not be able to rely as much on loan sales to reduce our interest rate and credit risk. 36 We face significant operational risks. We operate in many different financial service businesses and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. A tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may affect asset growth, our earnings capability, and capital levels negatively. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, including brokered deposits, as well as cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings, especially from the FHLB and repurchase agreements, also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations, or continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to the deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values, and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional common stock, as well as classes or series of preferred stock, generally without any action on the part of the stockholders. In addition, the board has the power, generally without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market value of the common stock could be adversely affected. 37 Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal and state laws and regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from our regulators. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2011, we held $39.7 million of bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) on key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $15.6 million and plan to add another $7 million in 2012. The policies are maintained to fund amounts owed under executive supplemental retirement plans. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. If our investment in the FHLB of Atlanta becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2011, we owned $4.1 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB. Our FHLB’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. 38 Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. The Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state regulators, which have extensive discretion in connection with its supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations, or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In response to the recent financial crisis, Congress took actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the FDIC has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of the CFPB, which has broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers. This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations. That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements and loan loss provisions for the Company and the Bank and may increase interest expense due to the ability to pay interest on all demand deposits. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. See “How We Are Regulated.” In this recent economic downturn, federal and state banking regulators have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. The FDIC and GDBF govern the activities in which the Bank may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and not for the protection or benefit of stockholders. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. For example, recent legislative proposals require changes to our overdraft protection programs that decrease the amount of fees we receive for these services. During 2011, overdraft protection and nonsufficient fund fees totaled $4.1 million. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% of total insured deposits as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's average consolidated total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially may be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. See “- How we are Regulated” and “Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC.” Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, securities brokers, and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Because of the many recent bank failures in Georgia and Florida, a number of new competitors that have acquired failed banks have entered our primary market areas. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our core deposits and interest earning assets. 39 Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Our controls and procedures may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls, and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms, and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The Implementation of our stock-based incentive plan may dilute stockholders’ ownership interests. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 58,956 restricted shares and 117,673 stock options reserved for future awards under our two equity incentive plans. These stock-based incentive plans may be funded either through open market purchases or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of Heritage common stock. While our intention is to fund this plan through open market purchases, stockholders would experience approximately a 2.0% reduction in ownership interest in the event 176,629 newly issued shares of our common stock are issued upon exercise of stock options or issued as restricted stock under these plans. 40 Additional compensation and benefit expenses associated with the implementation of our stock-based incentive benefit plans will affect our profitability adversely. As awards are granted under our two equity incentive plans, our non-interest expenses are likely to increase as we will recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses related to the shares granted to employees, executives and directors under these plans. We cannot predict the actual amount of these new stock-related compensation and benefit expenses because applicable accounting practices require that expenses be based on the fair market value of the shares of common stock at specific points in the future; however, we expect them to be material. In addition, we will recognize expense for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts (i.e., as the loan used to acquire these shares is repaid), and we will recognize expense for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sale of our shares is subject to significant volatility in the price of our common stock. The ownership interest of management and employees could enable insiders to prevent a merger that may provide stockholders a premium for their shares. Our directors and executive officers own 473,521 shares, or 5.4%, of the Company’s common stock and options for an additional 606,695 shares. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan owns 7.5% of the outstanding shares of Heritage common stock. This may result in management, directors, and employees controlling a significant percentage of shares of Heritage common stock. If these individuals were to act together, they could have significant influence over the outcome of any stockholder vote. This voting power may discourage a potential sale of Heritage that its public stockholders may desire. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Georgia and Maryland law, and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Heritage without the consent of our Board of Directors. Stockholders may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 