ITEM 1A. Risk Factors There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price and market value of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business The credit quality of our loans could decline. Although we regularly review credit exposure related to particular customers, industry sectors and product lines, default risk may arise from circumstances that are difficult to predict or detect. In such circumstances, we could experience an increase in our provision for loan loss, non-performing assets, troubled debt restructurings and delinquent loans any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operation. Specifically, mortgage lending, including one-to four-family residential mortgage loans, home equity loans, lines of credit and commercial real estate loans, is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Historically, declines in residential real estate values resulting from downturns in local housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing many of our loans and has increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Declines in the volume of real estate sales and sales prices, coupled with increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets. Our loan portfolio also contains adjustable rate loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan from the initial fixed to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, a decline in real estate prices may leave borrowers with insufficient equity in the collateral to permit them to refinance or the inability to sell the collateral for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. These potential negative events, which may have a greater impact on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of other financial institutions due to our product mix, may cause us to incur losses, which would adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. One- to four-family residential real estate loans comprise a large portion of our loan portfolio and are sensitive to regional and local economic conditions and other factors that impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. We originate fixed and adjustable rate loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate. This type of real estate lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Declines in residential real estate values as a result of downturns in DFW Metroplex housing markets may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk of losses if borrowers default on 36 Table of Contents their loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to credit and regulatory risk is increased by our commercial real estate and commercial business lending. At December 31, 2013, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $38.1 million, or 17.2% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $16.9 million, or 7.7% of our total loans. Commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans generally have a greater risk of loss than owner-occupied one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business to cover operating expenses and debt service. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender may affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or business. Under our new commercial bank charter, we intend to emphasize business lending and marketing our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses. These small and medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. These firms are generally more vulnerable to economic downturns, whether large and sudden downturns or more moderate downturns that are more prolonged, and may not have the capital needed to compete against their larger, more capitalized competitors. Additionally, the continued success of these firms is frequently contingent on a small group of owners or senior management, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more such individuals could also have a material effect on the business and its ability to repay its loan obligations. If general economic conditions negatively affect these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, requiring us to make additions to our allowance for loan losses. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.93% of total loans, including loans held for sale, at December 31, 2013, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit depends largely on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we incur on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. 37 Table of Contents As a result of our historical focus on one- to four-family residential real estate loans, the interest rates on our loans are generally fixed for a longer period of time than the interest rates on our deposits. Additionally, many of our investment securities have lengthy maturities with fixed interest rates. Like many banks, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have either no stated maturity or shorter contractual maturities than mortgage loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter average duration than our assets. For example, as of December 31, 2013, 56.7% of our loans had maturities of 10 years or longer, while 47.0% of our certificates of deposit had maturities of one year or less. Although we actively monitor our interest rate risk position by, among other practices, retaining one- to four-family residential mortgage loans with terms of less than 15 years and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans which typically reprice between three and seven years, and selling into the secondary mortgage market most of our long-term fixed rate one- to four-family residential mortgage loans with terms of 15 years or more, this imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest we earn on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest we pay on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income we earn on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest expense we incur on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average lives of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio, consisting of mortgage-backed securities, CMOs, municipal obligations, agency securities and asset-backed securities totaled $29.2 million. Net unrealized losses on these securities totaled approximately $568,000 at December 31, 2013. We measure our interest rate risk and potential change in our net portfolio value through the use of the FTN Financial Sendero Asset/Liability Management Analysis system (the “FTN Model”). The FTN Model uses a discounted cash flow analysis and an option-based pricing approach to measure the interest rate sensitivity of net portfolio value. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet contracts. At December 31, 2013, in the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, we would experience an 8.28% decrease in net portfolio value. In the event of a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, we would experience a 9.75% decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk—Net Portfolio Value.” Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets during the past several years resulted in a global recession and significant uncertainty in the financial markets. As a result, loan portfolio quality deteriorated at many financial institutions, reflecting in part, the weakened U.S. economy and rising unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages declined and may not fully recover in the near future. Bank and depository institution holding company stock prices were negatively affected, as did the ability of banks and depository institution holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. 38 Table of Contents The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes could increase our FDIC insurance premiums, may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and may otherwise adversely affect our operations. New laws and regulations such as Dodd-Frank, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, may affect our stock performance. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the federal budget deficit, and concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the ongoing recovery of the housing markets and the U.S. economy. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. See “Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits.” If economic conditions deteriorate in the state of Texas, the value of our collateral and borrowers’ ability to repay loans may decline. The majority of our loans are located in the state of Texas. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Decreases in real estate values in the state of Texas could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for many of our loans. As a result, the market value of the real estate underlying such loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a loan, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to the remaining loan balance. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, adverse changes in the Texas economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would also have an adverse impact on earnings. 39 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Larger competitors may also be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Moreover, advances in technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Further, our smaller competitors may have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans in order to remain competitive, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. For example, we have entered into borrowing agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas pursuant to which we had the ability to borrow up to $89.4 million at December 31, 2013. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations or deterioration in credit markets. Protecting our business from identity theft and the theft of other customer data increases our cost of operations. To the extent that we, or our third party providers, are unable to prevent the loss of customer information, our operations may become disrupted and our net income may be adversely affected. We must protect our computer systems and network from physical break-ins, security breaches, and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Moreover, third party providers, such as payment processing centers, must also take similar actions to protect customer information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmissions of confidential information, as do our third party providers. However, security measures implemented by us or our third party providers may not prevent cyber-fraud. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any compromise of our security or the security of our third party providers were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our business is reliant on outside vendors. Our business is dependent on the use of outside service providers that support our day-to-day operations including data processing and electronic communications. Our operations are exposed to risk that a service provider may not perform in accordance with established performance standards required in our agreements for any number of reasons including equipment or network failure, a change in their senior management, their financial condition, their product line or mix and how they support existing customers, or a simple change in their strategic focus. While we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place to mitigate risk at various phases of service provider management from selection, to performance monitoring and renewals, the failure of a service provider to perform in accordance with contractual agreements could be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Texas Department of Banking, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and other regulatory bodies. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, consumers and investors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules, and regulations, or any other laws, rules, or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, or prospects. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. This new law significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Effective one year after the date of enactment was a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012, however, Congress did not extend this temporary program. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. 41 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. In December 2013, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the Volcker Rule was finalized by the federal banking agencies. The Volcker Rule prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and prohibits investment in hedge funds and private equity funds. We currently do not believe any of our investments are considered prohibited investments. In the event this conclusion changes, we may be required to sell certain assets as prices that may result in realize losses on sale. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet-to-be-written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. New regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); • interest-only payments; • negative-amortization; and • terms longer than 30 years. Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. Our business may be subject to possible enforcement or other legal action for failure to comply with laws and regulations. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance could result in enforcement and other legal actions by Federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured banks and their holding companies. The federal banking agencies issued a joint final rule, or the “Final Capital Rule,” that implements the Basel III capital standards and establishes the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. We must comply with the Final Capital Rule by January 1, 2015. The Final Capital Rule establishes a minimum common equity Tier I capital ratio of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets for a “well capitalized” institution and increases the minimum Tier I capital ratio for a “well capitalized” institution from 6.0% to 8.0%. Additionally, the Final Capital Rule requires an institution to maintain a 2.5% common equity Tier I capital conservation buffer over the 6.5% minimum risk-based capital requirement to avoid restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, discretionary bonuses, and engage in share repurchases. The Final Capital Rule permanently grandfathers trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier I capital. The Final Capital Rule increases the required capital for certain categories of assets, including high-volatility construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations; however, the Final Capital Rule retains the current capital treatment of residential mortgages. Under the Final Capital Rule, we may make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. If we do not make this election, unrealized gains and losses will be included in the calculation of our regulatory capital. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to attract and retain key employees may change. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key employees, competition for which can be intense. We may not be able to hire or retain these employees. The unexpected loss of a key employee could have a material adverse impact on our business as the skills, knowledge of our market and institution, and the years of experience of a departing key employee which are all difficult to quickly replace with qualified personnel. Furthermore, in 2011 federal regulators imposed limitations on incentive-based compensation for covered financial institutions which the regulators believe encourage inappropriate risk-taking, are deemed by a regulator to be excessive or may lead to material losses. We may be at a disadvantage offering compensation packages in competition with other banks and non-banks that are not subject to the rules. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. The financial services industry is interrelated. As with all institutions, including commercial and savings banks, credit unions, broker-dealers, investment banks, and other such institutional clients, we routinely engage in financial transactions with other financial institutions including loan syndications and participations, trading and clearing transactions, deposit accounts, and many other routine transactions. We rely on other institutions ability to remain commercially viable, that they are being operated in safe and sound manner, and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations applicable to the transactions in which we engage as well as the operation of their business as a whole. If our reliance is misplaced, or a default, failure or even rumors of such by one of more of those institutions occurs, it may lead to transaction-specific loss, default or credit risk for us, and could lead to further industry-wide liquidity problems, all of which can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have 43 Table of Contents substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, severe weather events, worldwide hostilities, including terrorist attacks, and other external events may adversely affect the general economy, the financial services industry, the industries of our customers, and us in particular. Natural disasters, severe weather events, including those prominent in our geographic footprint and those prominent in the geographic areas of our vendors and business partners, together with worldwide hostilities, including terrorist attacks, and other external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our business. They could also affect the stability of our deposit base, our borrowers’ ability to repay loans, impair collateral, result in a loss of revenue or an increase in expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery and business continuity procedures and plans, the occurrence of any such event may adversely affect our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Changes in accounting standards, or our own accounting practices or policies, could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time entities that set accounting standards change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us, and our independent accounting firms. The changes implemented by the entities in setting standards themselves could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Warehouse Purchase Program balances can experience significant fluctuations. We have a lending concentration in the Warehouse Purchase Program. Because Warehouse Purchase Program balances are contingent upon residential mortgage lending activity, changes in the residential real estate market nationwide and in our market areas can lead to fluctuations of balances in this product, materially impacting both interest and non-interest income. Factors that can impact Mortgage Warehouse balances include interest rates, home prices, home inventories, new housing starts, inclement weather, banking regulations, and intense industry competition. Additionally, Warehouse Purchase Program period-end balances are generally higher than the average balance during the period due to increased mortgage activity that occurs at the end of a month. 44 Table of Contents We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result of the recent increase in merger and acquisition activity involving small banks, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, business or branches involves potential adverse impact to our financial results and various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; • payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company, including, without limitation, liabilities for regulatory and compliance issues; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • there may be volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and / or other projected benefits; • potential disruption to our business; • potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Regulatory and corporate governance anti-takeover provisions may make it difficult for you to receive a change-in-control premium. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations make it difficult for any one person or company or a group of persons from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 45 Table of Contents 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct our management or policies without prior notice or application to and the approval of the appropriate federal regulator(s). Certain provisions of our corporate documents are also designed to make merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events were perceived by many of our stockholders to be beneficial to their interests. Our stock price can be volatile and its trading volume is generally less than other institutions. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors. The factors that may cause a fluctuation in our stock price, among those risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, are: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • new technology used, or serves offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. Also, although our common stock is currently listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the trading volume of our stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. Given the lower trading volume of our stock, significant sales of the stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the stock price to fall. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements that place significant demands on our resources. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. 46 Table of Contents There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require us to identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, do not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our future debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 47 Table of Contents 