ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risk factors related to Parametric Sound, the merger agreement and the merger. You should also consider the risk factors pertaining to Turtle Beach under “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Turtle Beach’s Business” which are set forth in the preliminary proxy statement we filed with the SEC on November 4, 2013 and are incorporated herein by reference. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO THE MERGER BETWEEN PARAMETRIC AND TURTLE BEACH Although Parametric and Turtle Beach expect that the merger will result in benefits to the combined company, the combined company may not realize those benefits because of various challenges. Parametric and Turtle Beach believe that the merger will result in Turtle Beach’s experience, financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing resources, scalable supply chain and global distribution network helping to accelerate the design, development, commercialization and distribution of pit products and technology, including our HyperSound-based products, in particular in our three target market segments, and that the merger will drive future growth across the businesses of the combined company. However, the integration of a new company is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and there can be no assurance that the combination will result in the realization of the anticipated benefits from the merger. The announcement and pendency of the merger could have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. The announcement and pendency of the merger has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our stock price and increase the price volatility and risk of trading in our stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects could also be adversely affected. For example, third parties may seek to terminate and/or renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of the merger, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements or otherwise. Potential licensees and commercial customers may decide not to continue discussions with us. In addition, the attention of our management may be directed toward the completion of the merger and related matters and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations, including from other opportunities that otherwise might be beneficial to us. Failure to complete the merger could impact negatively our business, financial condition or results of operations or our stock price. The completion of the merger is subject to a number of conditions and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including: ·the current trading price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, meaning that a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock; ·certain of our executive officers and/or directors may seek other employment opportunities, and the departure of any of our executive officers and the possibility that we would be unable to recruit and hire a replacement executive could impact negatively our business and operating results; ·our Board of Directors would need to reevaluate our strategic alternatives, which alternatives may include a sale of the company, liquidation of the company, a return to pre-merger strategies of seeking licensing candidates and growing commercial sales, or other strategic transactions; ·we may be required to pay Turtle Beach a termination fee of $1,000,000 and/or enter into a license agreement to Turtle Beach for certain of our intellectual property for use in console audio products on an exclusive basis and computer audio products on a non-exclusive basis if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; ·we have incurred and expect to incur substantial additional transaction and litigation costs in connection with the merger whether or not the merger is completed; ·we would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the merger; and ·under the merger agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, which restrictions could adversely affect our ability to realize our business strategies or take advantage of certain business opportunities in the event the merger is not completed. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. 18 The issuance of shares of our common stock to Turtle Beach stockholders in connection with the merger will dilute substantially the voting power of our current stockholders. Pursuant to the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger, we will issue shares of common stock to the former Turtle Beach stockholders which, together with options to purchase shares of Turtle Beach common stock that will be converted into options to purchase shares of our common stock (and will be assumed by us at the effective time of the merger), will represent approximately 80% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis after the merger, subject to adjustment pursuant to the merger agreement. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of our common stock to Turtle Beach stockholders in connection with the merger will reduce significantly the relative voting power of each share of our common stock held by our current stockholders. Consequently, our stockholders as a group will have significantly less influence over the management and policies of the combined company after the merger than prior to the merger. The Per Share Number and Per Share Exchange Ratio are not adjustable based on the market price of our common stock and if the market price of our common stock fluctuates, the market value of the shares of each party to the merger can change prior to the completion of the merger. The Per Share Number and Per Share Exchange Ratio, as calculated in the merger agreement, which determine the number of shares to be issued to the former Turtle Beach stockholders pursuant to the merger and the number of Parametric options to be granted to former Turtle Beach option holders, respectively, is based on the fully-diluted number of shares of our common stock and Turtle Beach capital stock outstanding as of immediately prior to the completion of the merger, subject to adjustment as provided in the merger agreement. No adjustments to the Per Share Number or Per Share Exchange Ratio will be made based on changes in the trading price of our common stock or the value of Turtle Beach capital stock prior to the completion of the merger. Changes in the trading price of our common stock or the value of Turtle Beach capital stock may result from a variety of factors, including, among others, general market and economic conditions, changes in our or Turtle Beach’s respective businesses, operations and prospects, market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed as anticipated or at all, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control or Turtle Beach’s control. As a result, the value of the shares of our common stock issued to Turtle Beach stockholders in connection with the merger could be substantially less or substantially more than the current market value of our common stock. Likewise, such factors including those related to Turtle Beach could affect the value of our common stock prior to closing of the merger. The “Parent Percentage” (as defined in the merger agreement) is not adjustable based on issuances by us of additional shares of our common stock either upon the exercise of options or warrants or issuance of certain new securities or otherwise, and any new issuances could result in additional dilution to our current stockholders. Subject to certain conditions in the merger agreement, we are not prohibited from issuing additional equity securities, including securities issued pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or the granting of new stock options or the issuance of new securities related to a qualified offering or otherwise. It is possible that prior to the completion of the merger, we may grant additional stock options or issue additional equity securities including in connection with a Qualified Equity Offering. The Parent Percentage, as defined in the merger agreement, which determines in part the number of shares to be issued to the former Turtle Beach stockholders pursuant to the merger and the number of Parametric options to be granted to former Turtle Beach option holders, respectively, is not adjustable based on issuances by us of additional shares of our common stock, or an increase in our fully-diluted shares by issuance of additional stock options or warrants as such (but may be adjusted in the event of a Qualified Equity Offering). Therefore, any such new issuances by us could result in additional dilution to our current stockholders. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction and litigation costs in connection with the merger, some of which will be required to be paid even if the merger is not completed. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction and litigation costs in connection with the merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys and accountants and our financial advisors. Many of these costs will be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated due to certain triggering events specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay Turtle Beach a termination fee of $1,000,000 and may be required to enter into the break-up fee license agreement. 19 The merger agreement and certain related voting agreements contain provisions that could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to acquire us prior to the completion of the merger. The merger agreement contains provisions that may make it difficult for us to entertain a third-party proposal for an acquisition. These provisions include: ·certain prohibitions on our soliciting or engaging in discussions or negotiations regarding any alternative acquisition proposal outside a limited 30-day go shop period that expired on September 5, 2013; and ·the requirement that we pay Turtle Beach a termination fee of $1,000,000 and/or enter into the break-up fee license agreement if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. In addition, pursuant to agreements entered into between Turtle Beach and our three executive officers, each executive officer is subject to a voting agreement, pursuant to which he has agreed to vote in favor of the approval and adoption of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and vote against other acquisition proposals defined in the agreement. These provisions might discourage an otherwise interested third party from considering or proposing an acquisition of us, even one that may be deemed of greater value than the merger to our stockholders. Furthermore, even if a third party elects to propose an acquisition, the potential termination and the break-up fee license agreement may result in that third party offering a lower value to our stockholders than such third party might otherwise have offered. Because the lack of a public market for Turtle Beach’s outstanding shares makes it more difficult to evaluate the value of such shares, Turtle Beach stockholders may receive consideration in the merger that is greater than the fair market value of the Turtle Beach shares. Turtle Beach is privately held and its outstanding capital stock is not traded in any public market. The lack of a public market makes it difficult to determine the fair market value of Turtle Beach or its shares of capital stock. Since the percentage of our equity to be issued to the Turtle Beach stockholders was determined based on negotiations between the parties, it is possible that the value of the our common stock to be issued in connection with the merger will be greater than the fair market value of Turtle Beach. The NASDAQ Capital Market considers the anticipated merger of Parametric and Turtle Beach to be a business combination with a non-NASDAQ entity, resulting in a change in control of Parametric; and therefore, has required that Parametric submit a new initial listing application, which requires certain actions on the part of the combined company which may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, could make it more difficult for holders of shares of the combined company to sell their shares. The NASDAQ Capital Market considers the merger between Parametric and Turtle Beach to be a business combination with a non-NASDAQ entity, resulting in a change in control of Parametric and has required that Parametric submit a new initial listing application. The NASDAQ Capital Market may not approve Parametric’s new initial listing application for The NASDAQ Capital Market on a timely basis, or at all. If this occurs then the merger may not be completed and if the merger is still completed, stockholders may have difficulty converting their investments into cash effectively. The merger will result in changes to the our Board and we may pursue different strategies after the merger than we may have pursued independently. If the merger is completed, the composition of our Board will change in accordance with the merger agreement. Following completion of the merger, our Board is expected to consist of nine members initially to be comprised of two directors appointed by us, five directors appointed by former Turtle Beach stockholders and two vacancies. Currently, it is anticipated that after the merger we will continue to advance the current product development efforts and business strategies of both Parametric and Turtle Beach. However, because a majority of the the Board after the merger will initially be comprised of directors selected by Turtle Beach, following the merger we may pursue certain business strategies that we would not have pursued had the merger not taken place. 20 Ownership of the combined company's common stock will be highly concentrated, and it will prevent our stockholders from influencing many significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause the combined company's stock price to decline. Upon completion of the merger, certain Turtle Beach stockholders acting as a group are expected to beneficially own or control a significant majority of the combined company. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group pursuant to a stockholder agreement, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders also may exert influence in delaying or preventing a change in control, even if such change in control would benefit the other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may affect adversely the market value of our common stock due to investors' perception that such conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Following the merger, we expected to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Upon completion of the merger, it is anticipated that Parametric will be a “controlled company” under NASDAQ rules. A “controlled company” under NASDAQ rules is a listed company more than 50 percent of the voting power of which is held by an individual, a group or another company (and which elects to be treated as a “controlled company”). Following the merger, certain stockholders of Turtle Beach will constitute a group controlling more than 50% of the voting power of our voting stock. As a “controlled company,” we will be permitted to, and intend to, opt out of certain NASDAQ rules that would otherwise require (i) a majority of the members of the our Board to be independent, (ii) that the compensation committee be comprised entirely of independent directors, and (iii) that we establish a nominating and governance committee comprised entirely of independent directors, or otherwise ensure that director nominees are determined or recommended to the Board by the independent members of the Board. Accordingly, after the merger, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. Following the merger, sales of shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement, Parametric and Turtle Beach entered into Stockholder Agreements and Irrevocable Proxies, referred to as the “voting agreements,” with Messrs. Potashner, Barnes and Norris, as well as certain entities over which they exercise voting and/or investment control, collectively referred to as the “management stockholders.” Under the voting agreements, the management stockholders have agreed to a lock-up restriction whereby they have agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer the shares of Parametric common stock beneficially owned by them (or subsequently acquired by them) until six months following the closing of the merger, subject to certain exceptions including, without limitation, the right to sell shares in order to pay certain taxes which may arise in connection with the merger. Additionally, pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, Turtle Beach stockholders have agreed to a lock-up restriction whereby they will not sell or otherwise transfer the merger shares for a period of six months following the closing of the merger, subject to certain exceptions including, without limitation, the right to sell shares in order to pay certain taxes which may arise in connection with the merger. Additionally, the Stockholder Agreement provides for certain post-closing registration rights after the merger, which rights could facilitate the sale of the shares held by Turtle Beach stockholders into the market. If the shares held by the aforementioned stockholders are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Several lawsuits have been filed against Parametric, Parametric’s directors, Merger Sub and Turtle Beach challenging the merger, and an adverse judgment in such lawsuits may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. Parametric, our directors and Turtle Beach are named as defendants in class action lawsuits brought by stockholders challenging the proposed merger, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from consummating the merger on the agreed-upon terms. If the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the parties from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms, the injunction may prevent the completion of the merger in the expected timeframe (or altogether). In connection with the consummation of the merger, Parametric and its subsidiaries will become subject to the terms and conditions of Turtle Beach’s credit facility and, accordingly, will be required to grant to the lenders under such facility a first-priority lien against the assets of Parametric and its subsidiaries. Upon the closing of the merger, Parametric and its subsidiaries will become parties to Turtle Beach’s credit facility and subject to the terms and conditions thereof. For more information about this credit facility and related risks, see the following sections in the preliminary proxy statement we filed on November 4, 2013, which are incorporated herein by reference, entitled “Turtle Beach’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Obligations,” “Risk Factors – Turtle Beach depends upon the availability of capital under its credit facility…” and “Risk Factors – Turtle Beach’s Credit Facility provides its lenders with a first priority lien against substantially all of its assets…” If the combined company were to fail to comply with the affirmative and negative covenants of the credit facility, the lenders under such facility could under certain circumstances foreclose on the assets of the combined company, which would result in a material adverse effect on the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. 21 RISKS RELATED TO THE COMBINED COMPANY IF THE MERGER IS COMPLETED The success of the merger will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company following completion of the merger to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Parametric and Turtle Beach. The merger involves the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently with operating offices in two distinct locations. Parametric and Turtle Beach are able to conduct only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies prior to completion of the merger. Significant management attention and resources will be required to integrate the two companies after completion of the merger. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company’s failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: ·using the combined company’s cash and other assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; ·appropriately managing the liabilities of the combined company; ·potential unknown or currently unquantifiable liabilities associated with the merger and the operations of the combined company; ·potential unknown and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and ·performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies’ operations. Delays in the integration process could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial results, financial condition and stock price following the merger. Even if the combined company were able to integrate the business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration and that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Future results of the combined company may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial statements presented in the preliminary proxy statement and the financial forecasts prepared by Parametric and Turtle Beach in connection with discussions concerning the merger. The future results of the combined company may be materially different from those shown in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements presented in the preliminary proxy statement filed on November 4, 2013, which show only a combination of the historical results of Parametric and Turtle Beach, and the financial forecasts prepared by each company in connection with discussions concerning the merger. Parametric and Turtle Beach expect to incur significant costs associated with completion of the merger and combining the operations of the two companies. The exact magnitude of these costs is not yet known, but is estimated to be approximately $9 million between the two companies. Furthermore, these costs may decrease the capital that the combined company could use for continued development of the combined company’s business in the future or may cause the combined company to seek to raise new capital sooner than expected. The combined company’s ability to utilize Parametric’s net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the future is subject to substantial limitations and may be further limited as a result of the merger. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50 percent change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. Further, if the historic business of Parametric is not treated as being continued by the combined entity for the two-year period beginning on the date of the merger (referred to as the “continuity of business requirement”), the pre-transaction net operating loss carryforward deductions become substantially reduced or unavailable for use by the surviving corporation in the transaction. It is expected that the merger with Turtle Beach will result in an “ownership change” of Parametric. Accordingly, the combined company’s ability to utilize Parametric’s net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be substantially limited. These limitations, in turn, could result in increased future tax payments for the combined company, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. 22 Under Section 384 of the Code, available net operating loss carryovers of Parametric or Turtle Beach may not be available to offset certain gains arising after the merger from assets held by the other corporation at the effective time of the merger. This limitation will apply to the extent that the gain is attributable to an unrealized built-in-gain in the assets of Parametric or Turtle Beach existing at the effective time of the merger. To the extent that any such gains are recognized in the five-year period after the merger upon the disposition of any such assets, the net operating loss carryovers of the other corporation will not be available to offset such gains (but the net operating loss carryovers of the corporation that owned such assets will not be limited by Section 384 although they may be subject to other limitations under Section 382 as described above). The price of Parametric common stock after the merger is completed may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the price of Parametric common stock. The business of Parametric differs significantly from the business of Turtle Beach; and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the trading price of Parametric common stock following completion of the merger may be affected significantly by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of Parametric. The combined company’s management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. The combined company will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that Turtle Beach did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including those related to corporate governance practices. The combined company’s management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Certain members of Turtle Beach’s management, which will continue as the management of the combined company, do not have significant experience in addressing these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase the combined company’s legal and financial compliance costs relative to those of Turtle Beach and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that the combined company maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, the combined company must perform system and process evaluation and testing of its internal control over financial reporting to allow management and the combined company’s independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The combined company’s compliance with these requirements will require that it incur substantial accounting and related expenses and expend significant management efforts. The combined company will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The costs of hiring such staff may be material and there can be no assurance that such staff will be immediately available to the combined company. Moreover, if the combined company is not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if the combined company or its independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the combined company’s financial reports, the market price of the combined company’s common stock could decline and the combined company could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Capital Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. After completion of the merger, the combined company will possess not only all of the assets but also all of the liabilities of both Parametric and Turtle Beach. Discovery of previously undisclosed or unknown liabilities could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions involve risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems. After completion of the merger, the combined company will possess not only all of the assets, but also all of the liabilities of both Parametric and Turtle Beach. Although Parametric conducted a due diligence investigation of Turtle Beach and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, and Turtle Beach conducted a due diligence investigation of Parametric and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, it is possible that undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems may arise after completion of the merger, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Parametric and Turtle Beach do not expect the combined company to pay cash dividends. Parametric and Turtle Beach anticipate that the combined company will retain its earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore not pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in the combined company’s common stock for that purpose. Anti-takeover provisions in the combined company’s charter and bylaws may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or management and could make a third-party acquisition of the combined company difficult. The combined company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, will contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the combined company’s common stock. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO PARAMETRIC Risks Related to Parametric’s Financial Condition and Future Capital Requirements We have not generated significant revenues and we have a history of operating losses, expect additional losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. Substantially all our revenues to date have been derived from sales of one product to a limited number of customers. We must expand our customer base and introduce new products to generate additional revenues. We have incurred operating losses since our Spin-Off and expect additional losses until we achieve revenues and resulting margins to offset our operating costs. We expect to expend significant resources on personnel, consultants, intellectual property protection, research and development, marketing, production and administration. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 was $7,670,424 and $4,462,182, respectively. Our ability to achieve future profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many outside our control. Failure to achieve profitability or sustain profitability, if achieved, may require us to continue to obtain additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock or be dilutive. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial merger related costs and until and unless our revenues grow sufficiently to sustain operations, we must depend on financing to sustain operations. Developing products and introducing new technology requires substantial amounts of capital. A merger such as that being undertaken by us requires substantial expenditures for legal and related business transaction costs. Through September 30, 2013 we expended $1.3 million on business transaction expenses and expect to incur substantial additional costs in the first quarter of 2014 and or until the merger is completed or terminated. If the merger is not completed, we expect our cash resources to decrease as we continue to use cash to pay merger related transaction costs and fund operations. While we believe that existing working capital resources and product revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements over the next year this estimate may prove incorrect or we, nonetheless, may choose to raise additional financing. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors including: ·the timing, cost and successful completion of the merger; ·the success, progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to obtain licensing arrangements and our efforts to evaluate possible strategic alternatives with respect to the Company and our technology; ·our ability to obtain value from our current products and technologies and our ability to sell or license new products and technologies and the costs and expenses of such activities; ·the perceived, potential and actual commercial success of the our products; ·our operating expenses; ·the progress, timing, cost and results of our regulatory efforts related to hearing applications of its technology; ·the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; ·the emergence of competing products and technologies, and other adverse market developments; and ·the resolution of the pending purported shareholder class action litigation and any amount we may be required to pay as deductible or in excess of its directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. 24 In the event we require additional working capital to fund operations or otherwise elect to raise additional funds, management may seek to acquire any such additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements. There is no assurance that any financing transaction will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If the we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. If we do not complete the merger and if adequate funds are not available in the future or are not available on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce our operating costs which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We will need additional capital for future growth and raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders, raising additional funds by issuing additional debt financing may restrict our operations and raising additional funds through licensing arrangements may require us to relinquish proprietary rights. If the merger is not completed we may need additional capital to support continued operations and our future growth. While we may be able to generate some funds from operations, existing working capital may not be sufficient due to the significant merger costs and operating losses. Principal factors affecting the availability of internally generated funds include: ·failure of product sales and licensing proceeds sufficient to meet planned projections; ·consumer spending levels impacting the sale of our products or those of any future licensees; ·working capital requirements to support business growth; ·our ability to control spending; ·introduction of new competing technologies; ·product mix and effect on margins; and ·acceptance of our existing and future products and technologies in existing and new markets. In the event we would be required to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be diluted significantly, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of its existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance of any equity securities could be at a discount to the market price. If we incur debt financing, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem stock or make investments. There is no assurance that any equity or debt financing transaction will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As an alternative to raising additional financing by issuing additional equity or debt securities, we may choose to license one or more of our products or technologies to a third party, sell certain assets or rights under license agreements or enter into other business collaborations or combinations, including a possible sale or merger of our company. We have no license revenues to date and there is no assurance of our ability to license or otherwise obtain funds through licensing or similar activity. If we obtain additional funds through licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish greater or all rights to our products at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we otherwise would choose. 25 Risks Related to Parametric’s Current Business Focusing a key component of our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property through licensing may not result in anticipated benefits. During fiscal 2012 we announced that in addition to commercial product sales we were focusing efforts on leveraging the value of our intellectual property by seeking to license our technology to established industry partners in target markets and growing our product business in digital signage and related markets. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our licensing strategy, making it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, our intellectual property licensing strategy may place increased demands on our personnel and divert resources from product sales and product operations adversely affecting future results. We also may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our strategies. Our licensing strategy is untested, subject to risk and there is no assurance companies will license our technology or produce licensable products or pay license fees sufficient to sustain our operations. Our licensing strategy is untested and we have no licensing revenue to date. There can be no assurance that consumer electronic product companies we have targeted or will target will license our technology or, if so, produce licensable products. Our plans and ability to license for particular applications may require additional product development and there can be no assurance we can demonstrate performance acceptable to prospective licensees. The markets for consumer electronic products in which our technology is intended are intensely competitive and price sensitive. This could place pressure on licensing fees and limit our ability to exploit our technology. We also risk that licensees will inaccurately report licensing royalties, if any, or that they or others will make unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and continued difficult economic circumstances in our industry or a reduction in spending by customers could adversely affect our operating results. The electronics industry in general has historically been characterized by a high degree of volatility and is subject to substantial and unpredictable variations resulting from changing business cycles. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular conditions that impact discretionary consumer spending. The audio products sector of the electronics industry has and may continue to experience a slowdown in sales, which adversely impacts our ability to generate revenues and impacts the results of our future operations. The current tight credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in an absence of orders or spending for our products as well as create supplier disruptions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the adverse economic conditions and disruptions in financial markets and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. We purchase a number of key components and subassemblies from foreign suppliers. Consequently, we are subject to the impact economic conditions can have on such suppliers and subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases in our cost of purchasing these items could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. A significant portion of our revenue has been derived from a few large customers and sales of one product category. We are dependent on one core technology and product category and limited products to generate revenues. We cannot assure you that these or other future products will achieve customer acceptance to attain a level of sales to support our operating costs. The vast majority of our product sales are generated from a small number of customers and we have no reported licensing revenue to date. Two customers accounted for 43% and 24% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013 and three customers accounted for 30%, 16% and 16% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012. We do not have long-term agreements with these or other customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us. The loss of any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, the uncertainty of product orders can make it difficult to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with actual sales, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. 26 We must develop a larger customer base or generate license revenues in order to grow our business. To grow our business we must develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill increased orders from both prior and new customers. Our sales to date have been limited to a few customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop a larger customer base. Further, even if we continue to retain prior customers and obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase sufficient quantities of our products at prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling orders. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate any future license revenues. Our ability to increase sales of our products or generate license revenues depends on a number of factors, including: ·our ability to timely demonstrate or manufacture reliable products that have the features required by our customers; ·our ability to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to sales of our products or licensing of our technology; ·our ability to develop and expand into new markets for our audio products and technology; and ·our ability to develop international product distribution or licensing directly or through partners. Errors, limitations or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards, product injury claims or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, increased warranty costs or damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Our technology is substantially different from proven, mass-produced sound transducer designs. Any performance limitations, defects or errors in the operation of our products could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources, increased customer service, adverse regulatory actions and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at some point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, injury or other loss to customers, and may injure our reputation and increase our warranty or service costs. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. Defects and/or warranty costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. End-users of our products could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries including damage to hearing. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us. We have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall, and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, cause a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources adversely affecting our financial results. We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Since our products include ultrasonic emissions along with the acoustic output, customers or others could claim damage to human hearing or human health irrespective of whether the product is used properly or improperly, such as when the product is used at extreme close ranges for long periods of exposure. A person claiming injury in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. While we have product liability insurance, it may be too costly for us or may be unavailable and it may be insufficient to pay any claims. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. 27 If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our processes, products or services may become obsolete. The audio market is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Although we will continue to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, research and discoveries by others may make our processes, products or services less attractive or even obsolete. Our efforts may never demonstrate the feasibility of our new electronics processing and emitter technology for broad-based product applications. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including without limitation unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. While we believe we have overcome many of the technical problems traditionally associated with parametric sound reproduction, these technical problems or new technical problems may result in delays and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete, or if we experience significant delays in completing development, manufacturing and licensing of commercial or consumer applications using our new technology, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. We cannot predict our future operating results. Our quarterly and annual results will likely be subject to fluctuations caused by many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one or more of these factors, including those listed below, could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: ·the resources expended on and the status and timing of our proposed merger with Turtle Beach and related transactions; ·our ability to supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors, VARs or OEMs or to license our technologies; ·market acceptance of, and changes in demand for, our products or our customers’ products; ·gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; ·unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; ·the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products; ·fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; ·timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; ·product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; ·unpredictable warranty costs associated with our products; ·installation or order delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or production delays by us or our suppliers; ·general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; ·general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and ·general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we intend to offer. Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies and, therefore, adversely affect our future operating results. 28 Our expenses may vary from period to period, which could affect quarterly results and our stock price. If we incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we do not experience increased revenue, our results of operations will be adversely affected and we may incur larger losses than anticipated for that quarter. Factors that could cause our expenses to fluctuate from period to period include: ·the merger costs associated with our proposed merger with Turtle Beach; ·the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; ·tooling, manufacturing and production working capital costs; ·investments and costs of maintaining or protecting our intellectual property; ·the extent of marketing and sales efforts to promote our products and technologies; and ·the timing of personnel and consultant hiring. Our potential for rapid growth and our entry into new markets make it difficult for us to evaluate our current and future business prospects, and we may be unable to effectively manage any growth associated with these new markets, which may increase the risk of your investment and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We believe the development of our new technology, including electronics processing and emitter improvements, will enable us to enter targeted new markets and to expand our presence in our current product markets. Because these improvements are relatively new, we may be unable to evaluate our future prospects in our current market and in new markets, particularly in light of our goals to continually grow our existing and new customer base, expand our product offerings, integrate complementary businesses and enter additional new markets. In addition, our potential growth, recent product introductions and entry into new markets may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our executive management, personnel and systems, and our operational, administrative and financial resources may be inadequate. We may also not be able to effectively manage any expanded operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis, particularly if the number of customers using our products and services significantly increase or their demands and needs change as our business expands. If we are unable to manage expanded operations effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and more established electronic and sound system manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and larger facilities than us, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. The life cycles of our technologies are difficult to estimate. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our technologies do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot maintain and obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop similar technology and the agreements we enter into to protect our proprietary rights may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection of our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position could be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 29 As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection, or may be too costly to enforce protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products may be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in these countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, resulting in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: ·cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; ·obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and ·redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our technology is subject to government regulation, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations and is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, as well as the Federal Communications Commission. Although we believe we are in compliance with applicable FDA and FCC regulations, in the event of certain unanticipated defects in our products, a customer or we may be required to comply with governmental requirements to remedy the defect and/or notify consumers of the problem. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our parametric sound technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. In our efforts to seek medical device marketing clearance we could face significant regulatory issues that could bar or delay product marketing or limit indicated uses. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that there will not be limitations imposed on indicated uses and claims. We recently submitted a notification seeking medical device marketing clearance from the FDA under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. This provision allows many medical devices to avoid human clinical trials if the product is “substantially equivalent” to another device already on the market. Premarket notification requires a new device to be compared for safety, effectiveness and technological characteristics to another device (or multiple devices) already on the market. A successful 510(k) submission results in FDA clearance for commercialization. 30 If approved, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review, regulation and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. To market any products internationally, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval, including the risk that our products may not be approved for use under all of the circumstances requested, which could limit the uses of our products and adversely impact potential product sales, and that such clearance or approval may require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We rely on outside suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products and failure to forecast demand could cause us to lose business or be obligated for excess inventory. Our products have a number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source with long lead times, which can magnify the risk of shortages or result in excess supply and also decreases our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on one piezo-film supplier to provide expertise and materials used in our proprietary emitters and one supplier for a majority of our plastic and metal parts from tooling owned by us. Our sales have varied from quarter to quarter and are not subject to reliable forecast. If shortages occur we could lose sales or if we purchase excess inventory, we could be subject to loss from lack of sales or if models change. Also if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain "conflict minerals" for issuers for which such "conflict minerals" are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as "3TG." Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. If we are not able to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, we would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on members of our supply chain. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead, cadmium and other substances. We do not expect that the impact of these environmental laws and other similar legislation adopted in the U.S. and other countries will have a substantial unfavorable impact on our business. However, the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. 31 Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. Our business is substantially dependent on our Executive Chairman, Kenneth F. Potashner, and our President and Chief Scientist, Elwood G. Norris, and other key personnel. The loss of either of Mr. Potashner or Mr. Norris or any of these key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies like ours is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products, attract customers and meet customer shipments. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC require us to include in our Form 10-K a report by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that out internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2013, it is possible that material weaknesses will be identified in the future. In addition, components of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on its stock price. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, XBRL interactive SEC filings, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies and often, increased costs to comply. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. The reliability of market data included in our public filings is uncertain. Since we operate in a rapidly changing market, we have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, include market data from industry publications and our own internal estimates in some of the documents we file with the SEC. This data may be inaccurate, incomplete or unreliable. Industry publications generally state that the information contained in these publications has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that its accuracy and completeness is not guaranteed. Although we believe that the market data used in our filings with the SEC is and will be reliable, it has not been and will not be independently verified. Similarly, internal company estimates, while believed by us to be reliable, have not been and will not be verified by any independent sources. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock has traded sporadically and is expected to experience significant price and volume volatility in the future that substantially increases the risk of loss to persons owning our common stock. There was no public market for our common stock prior to our spin-off in September 2010. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. Prior to March 22, 2012, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, where the shares of our common stock were historically sporadically or “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. On March 22, 2012, our common stock began listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, but there can be no assurances that our common stock will be actively traded. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and the possible price volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock when you desire to do so. The inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our common stock may suffer greater declines because of its price volatility. 32 In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: ·our anticipated or actual operating results; ·developments concerning our sound reproduction technologies; ·technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; ·announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; ·changes in personnel within our company; and ·other events or factors and general economic and market conditions. Our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market as low as $3.49 and as high at $22.39 during the period from March 22, 2012 through September 30, 2013. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of shares our common stock. There is no guarantee that our shares will continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Shares of our common stock became listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market on March 22, 2012. We may not be able to meet the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or there may not be enough brokers interested in making a market for our stock to allow us to continue to list thereon. Failure to satisfy any continued listing requirements could lead to the receipt of a deficiency notice from Nasdaq and ultimately to a delisting from trading of our common stock. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, among other things, this could result in a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with Nasdaq and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities, greater difficulty in obtaining financing and possible breaches of certain contractual obligations. Therefore, it may be difficult to sell your shares of common stock if you desire or need to sell them. It is possible that an active and liquid trading market in our securities may never develop or, if one does develop, that the market will continue. Sales of common stock by affiliates or sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may depress the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders including affiliates may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. As of September 30, 2013, we had outstanding options granted to our employees, directors and consultants to purchase 1,348,354 shares of our common stock, and had outstanding warrants issued to investors to purchase 137,345 shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2013, the exercise prices for the options and common stock warrants ranged from $1.50 to $16.92 per share. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock and could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain equity financing. Any substantial sale the sale of these shares in the market or sales of shares pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of your common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Preferred stock terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The declaration and amount of future dividends, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors our Board deems relevant. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 