ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risk factors related to Parametric Sound. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, expect additional losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. We have a history of operating losses and expect additional losses as we introduce our new product line and until we achieve revenues and resulting margins to offset our operating costs. Our net losses for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 were $923,197 and $986,426, respectively. Our ability to achieve future profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many outside our control. Failure to achieve profitability or sustain profitability, if achieved, may require us to continue to obtain additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock or be dilutive. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their audit opinion issued in connection with our financial statements as of September 30, 2010 and 2009 and for the years then ended, our independent registered public accounting firm included a going concern explanatory paragraph which stated there was substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis that contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that would be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to liquidate our assets and discharge our liabilities in other than the normal course of business and at amounts diffe rent from those reflected in our financial statements. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose all or a substantial portion or all of their investment. Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results now that we are an independent company. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been if we had been an independent company during the periods presented or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future. Our results could have been dramatically different as a stand-alone company, and these statements may not be a reliable indicator of what our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will be in the future. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of the presentation of the historical combined financial statements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” beginning on page 19 and the historical financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Disruption and fluctuations in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which can then lead to challenges in the operation of our business. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers, and illiquid credit markets hav e adversely affected the cost and availability of credit. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in an absence of any orders or spending for our planned products as well as create supplier disruptions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. 11 We expect to purchase a number of key components and subassemblies from foreign suppliers. Consequently, we are subject to the impact economic conditions can have on such suppliers and subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases in our cost of purchasing these items could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. We must develop a customer base in order to grow our business. While we expect to retain some customers from LRAD Corporation’s prior HSS product business, to grow our business, we must develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from prior and new customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop a customer base. Further, even if we do retain prior customers and obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase sufficient quantities of our new products at prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling those orders. Our ability to sell our products depends on a number of factors, including: · our ability to manufacture reliable products that have the features required by our customers; · our ability to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to sales of our products; · our ability to develop and expand new markets for directed sound products; and · our ability to develop international product distribution directly or through strategic partners. We plan to introduce new products based on new technology. If commercially successful products do not result or are not produced in a timely manner, we may be unprofitable or forced to cease operations. Our proposed product line is in production planning and has not yet been introduced to market. We may not successfully and timely produce commercially viable sound systems due to the inherent risks of technology development, new product introduction, limitations on financing, manufacturing problems, competition, obsolescence, inability to attract key technical personnel and other factors. We have not produced any revenues from our new product line, and we cannot guarantee revenues in the future. The development and introduction of our product line may take longer than anticipated, and the introduction of our products, if any, could be subject to delays. Customers may not accept our products and may elect to purchase products from competitors. We may experience quality control problems with our products, and we may not be able to resolve any problems in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products employing our technology may not achieve market acceptance. Unanticipated technical obstacles may arise at any time and result in lengthy and costly delays or result in a determination that further exploitation of our technology is not feasible. If we do not successfully exploit our technology, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be adversely affected. Our products are still under design and have not yet been produced in any production quantity, and we may incur significant and unpredictable warranty costs as these products are produced. Our planned product line has not yet been produced. Our technology is substantially different from proven, mass-produced sound transducer designs. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. We generally expect to warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of up to one year from the date of purchase. Future warranty costs could further adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. Our ability to develop, manufacture and market new products will be dependant upon our ability to use the technology that is subject to the license from Syzygy. We license from Syzygy new patent pending technology that we are using to complement HSS emitters to produce our new product line at a lower expected cost. The license may terminate if we do not use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue the parametric sound business. Although we expect to avoid a termination for non-use, if we are unable to retain the benefits of the technology owned by Syzygy, we may be unable to sell our new products and grow our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. 12 Conflicts of interest may arise relating to our license with Syzygy and otherwise. Certain conflicts of interest now exist and will continue to exist between us and our executive officers and directors due to the fact that they have other employment, business and investment interests to which they devote some attention and they are expected to continue to do so. Our executive officers also manage and control Syzygy a licensing company that owns and is licensing to us certain technology for producing parametric sound and certain conflicts could arise in future dealings between Syzygy and us. For example, we may not sublicense without the permission of Syzygy and sublicense royalty rates are subject to future negotiation in good faith. We have not established policies or procedures for the resolution of current or potential conf licts of interest between us and management or management-affiliated entities including Syzygy. There can be no assurance that members of management will resolve all conflicts of interest in our favor. Officers and directors are accountable to our Company as fiduciaries, which means that they are legally obligated to exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. Failure by them to conduct our business in our best interests may result in liability to them. While our directors and officers may be excluded from liability for certain actions pursuant to indemnification agreements, there is no assurance that our officers and directors would be excluded from liability or indemnified if they breach their loyalty to our Company. Our initial planned revenues will be derived from a single product category and two initial products. If we are successful in producing initial commercial products, we will be dependent on one core product category and two initial products to generate revenues. We cannot assure you that these or other products will achieve consumer acceptance, nor can we provide assurance of the levels of sales they can achieve, if any. The loss of this product category would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We cannot predict our future operating results. Our quarterly and annual results will likely be subject to fluctuations caused by many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues, if any, from our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one or more of these factors, including those listed below, could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: · our ability to develop and supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors, VARs or OEMs or in the future to license our technologies; · market acceptance of, and changes in demand for, our products or our customers’ products; · gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; · unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; · the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products; · fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; · timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; · product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; · unpredictable warranty costs associated with our products; · installation or order delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or production delays by us or our suppliers; · general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; · general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and · general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we intend to offer. Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies and, therefore, adversely affect our future operating results. Our expenses may vary from period to period, which could affect quarterly results and our stock price. If we incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we do not experience increased revenue, our results of operations will be adversely affected and we may incur larger losses than anticipated for that quarter. Factors that could cause our expenses to fluctuate from period to period include: · the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; · tooling, manufacturing start-up and production working capital costs; · investments and costs of maintaining or protecting our intellectual property; 13 · the extent of marketing and sales efforts to promote our products and technologies; and · the timing of personnel and consultant hiring. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and more established electronic and sound system manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and larger facilities than us, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Sound reproduction markets are subject to rapid technological change. Our success will depend on our ability to continually develop and introduce new technologies. Technology and standards in the sound reproduction market evolve rapidly, making timely and cost-effective product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our technologies obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our technologies do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. The life cycles of our technologies are difficult to estimate. As a result, our technology, even if successful, may become obsolete before we recoup our investment. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot maintain and obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop similar technology and the agreements we enter into to protect our proprietary rights may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection of our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position could be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection, or may be too costly to enforce protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products may be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in th ese countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in these countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. 14 Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, resulting in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and · redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our technology is subject to government regulation, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations and is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. In the event of certain unanticipated defects in our products, a customer or we may be required to comply with FDA requirements to remedy the defect and/or notify consumers of the problem. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our parametric sound technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Since our planned products include ultrasonic emissions along with the acoustic output, customers or others could claim damage to human hearing or human health irrespective if the product is used properly or improperly, such as when the product is used at extreme close ranges for long periods of exposure. A person claiming injury in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. While we plan to obtain product liability insurance, it may be too costly for us or may be unavailable. If we are able to obtain product liability insurance coverage, it may be insufficien t to pay all such claims. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. We expect to rely on outside manufacturers and suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products and may rely on third-party turnkey production in the future. Our products have a number of components and subassemblies we expect to be produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on one piezo-film supplier to provide expertise and materials used in our proprietary emitters. If shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. 15 We plan to have sub-assemblies produced by third-party manufacturers and may contract for complete production on a turnkey basis. We have no manufacturer relationship contracted at this time. We may not be able to obtain acceptable manufacturing sources on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time we may change manufacturers. Any new manufacturer engaged by us may not perform as expected. An extended interruption in the supply of our products could result in a substantial loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third-party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased warranty costs, product returns and buybacks. Failure to maintain quality manufacturing could reduce future revenues, adversely affecting fin ancial condition and results of operations. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead, cadmium and other substances. We do not expect that the impact of these environmental laws and other similar legislation adopted in the U.S. and other countries will have a substantial unfavorable impact on our business. However, the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. Errors or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products or damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Any defects or errors in the operation of our products may result in delays in their introduction. In addition, errors or defects may be uncovered after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Third parties could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us. We have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall, and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, causing a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources. Inadequate internal controls and accounting practices could lead to errors, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We need to establish internal controls and management oversight systems. Our small size and limited personnel and consulting resources will make doing so more challenging than for more established entities. We may not be able to prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements due to system errors, the potential for human error, unauthorized actions of employees or contractors, inadequacy of controls, temporary lapses in controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight resource contracts and other factors. In addition, due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial results as required under SEC rules, which could increase our operating costs or impair our ability to operate our business. Controls may also beco me inadequate due to changes in circumstances. It will be necessary to replace, upgrade or modify our internal information systems from time to time. If we are unable to implement these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and support our customers as required may be materially adversely impacted, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. Our business is substantially dependent on our chief executive officer, Elwood G. Norris, and other key personnel. The loss of Mr. Norris or any of these key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies like ours is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products, attract customers and meet customer shipments. 16 Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock There can be no assurance that an active trading market for shares of our common stock will continue. The public trading market for shares of our common stock has only recently commenced. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will sustain an active trading market in our common stock or how liquid such a market might be in the future. It is possible that an active trading market will not continue and there can be no assurance as to the price at which our common stock will trade. We are not the subject of research analyst coverage. The absence of research analyst coverage can adversely affect the market value and liquidity of an equity security. We cannot predict the price range or volatility of our common stock and sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, the market price and volume of shares traded of companies in the industries in which we operate experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and developments generally affecting our industries or the economy may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: · general economic, market and political conditions; · quarterly variations in results of operations or results of operations that are below public market analyst and investor expectations; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · operating and market price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; · press releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our markets; and · sales of common stock or other securities by insiders. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, investor perception and the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. All of the shares of our common stock, other than the shares held by executive officers and directors, are eligible for resale in the public market. Substantial selling of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Penny Stock Regulations Affect Our Stock Price, Which May Make It More Difficult For Investors To Sell Their Stock. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks” are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in t he customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, and investors may find it more difficult to sell their securities. We may issue additional common stock in the future. The issuance of additional common stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We may issue additional shares of common stock without further action by our stockholders. Moreover, the economic and voting interests of each stockholder will be diluted as a result of such issuances. Although the number of shares of common stock that stockholders presently own will not decrease, such shares will represent a smaller percentage of the total shares that will be outstanding after the issuance of additional shares. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 17 Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of any existing or future options or warrants may lower the price of our common stock. We have a stock option plan authorizing the grant of options to purchase up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock to our employees, directors and consultants. We have warrants on up to 1,400,000 common shares outstanding as part of our debt financing and may issue common stock purchase warrants or other securities convertible into common stock in the future. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of convertible securities, options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to existing holders of common stock, and the sale of those shares in the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The potential dilution from the issuance of these shares could negatively affect the terms on which we are able to obtain equity financing. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of your common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Preferred stock terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The declaration and amount of future dividends, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors our Board deems relevant. Our inability to comply with internal control requirements included in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a negative impact on our stock price. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements that could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We have not yet begun a formal process to establish or evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Given the status of our efforts, coupled with our currently limited personnel and financial resources, substantial uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply with these requir ements within the prescribed time frame. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 