D. Risk Factors—Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses.” 24 Table of Contents A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of shares and share options held by our employees who are PRC citizens may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by SAFE and a relevant guidance issued by SAFE in March 2007, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. In addition, the overseas-listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator and a custodian bank, and open special foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. Under the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, as amended in 2008, the foreign exchange proceeds of domestic entities and individuals can be remitted into China or deposited abroad, subject to the terms and conditions to be issued by SAFE. However, the implementation rules in respect of depositing the foreign exchange proceeds abroad have not been issued by SAFE. Currently, the foreign exchange proceeds from the sales of stock or dividends distributed by the overseas-listed company can be converted into Renminbi or transferred to such individuals’ foreign exchange savings account after the proceeds have been remitted back to the special foreign currency account opened at a PRC domestic bank. If stock options are exercised in a cashless exercise, the PRC domestic individuals are required to remit the proceeds to special foreign currency accounts. We and our PRC citizen employees who have been granted share options, or PRC option holders, have been subject to these rules since the listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market in June 2010 (which was subsequently elevated to the Nasdaq Global Select Market on January 3, 2011). If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4. Information of the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Foreign Exchange.” PRC government restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi may limit our ability to effectively utilize our revenues and funds. A majority of our net revenues are generated in Japanese yen or U.S. dollars, while most of our costs are denominated in Renminbi. In order for us to effectively utilize our revenues and the funds raised in our initial public offering and the follow-on public offering, we need to conduct currency exchanges between Renminbi and other currencies. Under PRC regulations as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, Renminbi is convertible for “current account transactions,” which include, among other things, dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts for use in payment of international current account transactions. Although the Renminbi has been fully convertible for current account transactions since 1996, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally include investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company’s business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the follow-on public offering to our PRC subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the follow-on public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. 25 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and follow-on public offering, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds we received our initial public offering and follow-on public offering, as an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned subsidiaries in China to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by China’s Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and follow-on public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. A majority of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards to a statutory general reserve fund until the cumulative amount in such fund reaches 50% of the company’s registered capital. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a public welfare fund. Also, each of our PRC subsidiaries that is a Chinese-foreign equity joint venture is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund an enterprise expansion fund. However, the specific amounts of the public welfare fund or enterprise expansion fund are subject to the discretion of the board of directors of the relevant subsidiary. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or dividends. As of December 31, 2010, our PRC subsidiaries had allocated $2.4 million to these statutory reserve funds. The total amount of our restricted net assets was $94.9 million as of December 31, 2010. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Any future outbreak of a severe form of H1N1 influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China, or any similar adverse public health developments, may disrupt our business and operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses operations and economic activities in China. For example, from December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were temporarily closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. The World Health Organization has announced that there is a high likelihood of an outbreak of avian flu in Asia, with the potential to be as disruptive as if not more disruptive than SARS. In 2009, occurrences of H1N1 influenza were reported throughout the world, including in China. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, an avian flu outbreak, a severe H1N1 influenza outbreak, or the development of a similar health hazard in China, may disrupt our business and operations and prevent us from providing our services in a timely manner. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs If a research report distributed by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., one of our underwriters, prior to the filing of our registration statement were held to violate the Securities Act, purchasers of ADSs in our follow-on public offering in December 2010 may have the right to seek refunds or damages. On November 18, 2010, prior to the filing of the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part, a research report regarding our recent acquisition of Besure Technology was distributed by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., one of our underwriters. The research report was not intended to constitute offering materials in connection with our follow-on public offering in December 2010, however, there may nevertheless be a risk that the report could be deemed a prospectus not meeting the requirements of the Securities Act and the distribution of the report could be found a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act. If the distribution of this research report were to be held by a court to be a violation by us of Section 5 of the Securities Act, purchasers in our follow-on public offering in December 2010 that received the research report, if any, and potentially all purchasers of ADSs in our follow-on public offering in December 2010 would, under the Securities Act, have the right for a period of one year from the date of their purchase, to seek recovery of the consideration paid in connection with their purchase or, if they had already sold the ADSs, sue us for damages resulting from their purchase. The total amount of these damages could potentially equal the gross proceeds of our follow-on public offering in December 2010, plus interest and the purchasers’ attorneys’ fees, if these investors seek recovery or damages after an entire loss of their investment. We also could be subject to potential enforcement actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could result in injunctive relief or the imposition of fines. Although we would vigorously contest any claims brought on the basis of this research report, there can be no guarantee that we would be successful in refuting any and all such claims. If any such claims were to succeed, we might not have sufficient funds to pay the resulting damages or to finance a repurchase of our ADSs and our reputation and our business could be materially and adversely affected. An active trading market for our common shares or our ADSs may not be sustained and the trading price for our ADSs may fluctuate significantly. If an active public market for our ADSs is not sustained, the market price and liquidity of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Furthermore, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs or common shares by existing shareholders could cause our ADSs price to decline. If our existing shareholders sell, indicate an intention to sell, or are perceived to intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market after any contractual lock-up period and other legal restrictions on resale discussed in this prospectus lapse, the trading price of our common shares could decline. As of March 31, 2011, we had 580,225,948 outstanding common shares (including 15,266,215 nonvested common shares awarded under our share incentive plan and excluding common shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with respect to our common shares under our share incentive plan). Of these shares, only ADSs sold in our initial public offering or in our follow-on public offering will be freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. The representatives of the underwriters may, in their sole discretion, permit our officers, directors, employees and current option holders and shareholders to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering and our follow-on public offering expire, all of our outstanding shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, although a portion will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, common shares subject to outstanding options under our share incentive plan will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common shares could decline. 27 Table of Contents We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders. Based on our financial statements, relevant market data, and the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2010, and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If we become a PFIC, United States Holders, as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”, of our common shares or ADSs may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Moreover, as the determination of our PFIC status is based on an annual determination that cannot be made until the close of a taxable year, and involves extensive factual investigation, including ascertaining the fair market value of all of our assets on a quarterly basis and the character of each item of income we earn, as discussed under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company”. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings in relation to any such offerings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. The trading price of our ADSs may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our ADSs may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors relating to our business as well as external factors beyond our control. Factors such as variations in our financial results, announcements of new business initiatives by us or by our competitors, recruitment or departure of key personnel, changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts electing to follow our securities or the securities of our competitors could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. At the same time, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, in late 2008 and early 2009, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. In recent years, many PRC companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. 28 Table of Contents These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and price for our ADSs. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our sixth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares may be adversely affected. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and reissued) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by noncontrolling shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: · to recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or · to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. 29 Table of Contents You will have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct our operations primarily in China. A substantial majority of our assets are located outside the United States and most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company. This may make it more difficult for you to assess the value of any consideration you may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give you additional consideration if you believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ourselves have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our amended and restated articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Your ability to protect your rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited to direct shareholder lawsuits. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying common shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our sixth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 10 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your common shares are not voted as you requested. 30 Table of Contents The depositary of our ADSs will, except in limited circumstances, grant to us a discretionary proxy to vote the common shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests and the ability of our shareholders as a group to influence the management of our company. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our common shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our common shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for holders of ADSs to influence the management of our company. Holders of our common shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our common shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we think or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. 31 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain Nasdaq corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirement regarding the implementation of a nominating committee. This may afford less protection to holders of our common shares and ADSs. The Nasdaq Marketplace Rules in general require listed companies to have, among other things, a nominating committee consisting solely of independent directors and establishment of a formal director nomination process. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require the implementation of a nominating committee or establishment of a formal director nominations process. We currently rely upon the relevant home country exemption in lieu of the nominating committee or nominations process. As a result, the level of independent oversight over management of our company may afford less protection to holders of our common shares and ADSs. 