Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, have adversely affected the Company’s industry, business and results of operations and may continue to do so. In 2008 and 2009, general worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, experienced a downturn due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which adversely affects the Company’s financial performance, especially in its marine businesses. A significant majority of the Company’s businesses are cyclical in nature and are highly sensitive to personal discretionary spending levels, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and personal income levels. The impact of weakening consumer and corporate credit markets; continued reduction in marine industry demand; corporate restructurings; declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, especially in large boating markets such as Florida and California; and higher fuel prices, have negatively affected the Company’s financial results and may continue to do so. Demand for the Company’s marine products has been significantly reduced by weak economic conditions, a lack of consumer confidence, unemployment and increased market volatility worldwide, especially in the United States and Europe. The Company estimates that retail unit sales of powerboats in the United States were down significantly during 2009, compared with the already low retail unit sales during 2007 and 2008. Bankruptcies, reorganizations outside of the bankruptcy process, restructurings, debt renegotiations and closures have become significantly more numerous for the industry’s manufacturers, distributors and suppliers around the globe. Any continued deterioration in general economic conditions that further diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may further reduce the Company’s sales and adversely affect its financial results, including increasing the potential for future impairment charges. The Company cannot predict the timing or duration of the current economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, either worldwide or in the specific markets where it competes. The economic factors discussed above have also reduced the ability of fitness centers and bowling retail centers to invest in new equipment, which has adversely affected sales in the Company’s Fitness and Bowling & Billiards segments. Tight consumer credit markets have reduced demand, especially for marine products, and may continue to do so. Customers often finance purchases of the Company’s marine products, particularly boats. Rising interest rates can have an adverse effect on consumers’ ability and willingness to finance boat purchases, which can adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell boats and engines to dealers and distributors. Further, the current tight credit markets in the United States have resulted in a tightening of funds available for retail financing for marine products and in some cases have resulted in lenders imposing stricter eligibility requirements, such as higher credit scores for potential boat buyers, loans with a higher interest rate than in prior periods, a decline in loan advance rates, particularly on aged product, and larger down payments. If the tightening of credit in the financial markets continues to adversely affect the ability of customers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a further decrease in sales of the Company’s products or delay any improvement in its sales. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain effective distribution. The Company relies on third-party dealers and distributors to sell the majority of its products, particularly in the marine business. The ability to maintain a reliable network of dealers is essential to the Company’s success. The Company faces competition from other boat manufacturers in attracting and retaining distributors and independent boat dealers. A significant deterioration in the number or effectiveness of the Company’s dealers and distributors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. 9 Weak demand for marine products has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the financial performance of the Company’s dealers. In particular, reduced cash flow from decreased sales and tighter credit markets may impair a dealer’s ability to fund operations. A continued inability to fund operations can force dealers to cease business, and the Company may not be able to obtain alternate distribution in the vacated market. An inability to obtain alternate distribution could unfavorably affect the Company’s net sales through lower market exposure. The Company anticipates that dealer failures or voluntary market exits will continue into future periods. Inventory reductions by major dealers, retailers and independent boat builders can adversely affect the Company’s financial results. In 2008 and the first half of 2009, dealer inventory levels were higher than desired and dealer inventory was aged beyond the Company’s preferred level. Consequently, in 2009, the Company implemented an aggressive pipeline strategy to reduce the number of units held by its dealers, which reduced field inventory by 13,700 units versus 2008 levels. Such efforts, combined with retail discounting, resulted in diminished wholesale levels of the Company’s products in 2009. To achieve these reductions, the Company: reduced boat production for 2009 by approximately 65 percent as compared to the prior year (which has resulted in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in the Company’s manufacturing facilities and thus lower margins); provided substantial support to dealers through retail discount programs aimed at reducing aged inventory; and, for most of the Company’s brands, delayed the start of the 2010 model year to September 1, 2009 in order to clear aged inventory to make room for new models. Continued inventory reduction efforts by dealers and independent boatbuilder customers could impair the Company’s future sales and results of operations. Excess supply of repossessed and aged boats can adversely affect industry pricing. Boats entering the market through non-traditional avenues, such as dealer and independent boat builder failures and rising levels of consumer-related repossessions, have resulted in an excess supply of repossessed boats that has had an adverse effect on industry pricing. Failed or struggling dealers and boat builders may be required to sell their inventory at significantly reduced prices or liquidation prices in order to pay their financial obligations. These supply conditions, combined with the Company’s inventory pipeline reduction strategy, have resulted in higher discounts and sales incentives used to facilitate retail boat sales, which can lead to lower sales or result in pressure on wholesale prices. The Company may be required to repurchase inventory or accounts of certain dealers. The Company has agreements with certain third-party finance companies to provide financing to the Company’s customers to enable the purchase of its products. In connection with these agreements, the Company may have obligations to either repurchase the Company’s products from the finance company, or may have recourse obligations to the finance company on the dealers receivables. These obligations are triggered if the Company’s dealers default on their debt obligations to the finance companies. The Company’s maximum contingent obligation to repurchase inventory and its maximum contingent recourse obligations on customer receivables are less than the total balances of dealer financings outstanding under these programs, as the Company’s obligations under certain of these arrangements are subject to caps, or limit the Company’s obligations based on the age of product. The Company’s risk related to these arrangements is mitigated by the proceeds it receives on the resale of repurchased product to other dealers, or by recoveries on receivables purchased under the recourse obligations. The Company’s inventory repurchase obligations relate primarily to the inventory floorplan credit facilities of the Company’s boat and engine dealers. The Company’s actual historical repurchase experience related to these arrangements has been substantially less than the Company’s maximum contractual obligations. If additional dealers file for bankruptcy or cease operations, additional losses associated with the repurchase of the Company’s products will be incurred. The Company’s net sales and earnings may be unfavorably affected as a result of reduced market coverage and the associated decline in sales. Continued weakness in the marine industry could cause an increase in future repurchase activity, or could require the Company to incur losses in excess of established reserves. In addition, the Company’s cash flow and loss experience could be adversely affected if inventory is not successfully distributed to other dealers in a timely manner, or if the recovery rate on the resale of the product declines. In addition, the finance companies could require changes in repurchase or recourse terms that would result in an increase in the Company’s contractual contingent obligations. The inability of the Company’s dealers and distributors to secure adequate access to capital could adversely affect the Company’s sales. The Company’s dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchases of the Company’s products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These sources of financing are vital to the Company’s ability to sell products through the Company’s distribution network, particularly to its boat and engine dealers. During the recent credit crisis, several third-party floorplan lenders ceased their lending operations, or materially reduced their exposure. A significant portion of the Company’s domestic and international boat and engine sales to dealers are financed through entities affiliated with GE Capital Corporation (GECC), including BAC (the Company’s 49 percent owned joint venture, with the other 51 percent being owned by CDFV, a subsidiary of GECC), which provides floorplan financing to domestic marine dealers. During 2009, GECC implemented several changes to its lending terms that significantly increased the cost of financing, imposed stricter lending criteria and required more rigorous terms, such as the timing of curtailment payments due on product based on aging. These changes have translated to higher costs for dealers to carry inventory, which in part has led the Company and its dealers to reassess and ultimately reduce wholesale orders and dealer inventories. 10 BAC commenced operations in 2003, and in the second quarter of 2008, the term of the joint venture was extended through June 2014. The joint venture is funded with the capital contributions from the joint venture partners, along with a $1.0 billion secured credit line provided by GE Commercial Distribution Finance Corporation (GECDF), which is in place through the term of the joint venture, and through receivable sales to a securitization facility arranged by GECDF. The Company does not guarantee the debt of BAC. GECDF may, however, terminate the joint venture if the Company is unable to maintain compliance with the minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio covenant included in the joint venture agreement, which is the same as the covenant included in the Company’s revolving credit facility. The availability and terms of financing offered by the Company’s dealer floorplan financing providers (including BAC and others) will continue to be influenced by their ability to access certain markets, including the securitization and the commercial paper markets, and to fund their operations in a cost effective manner; the performance of their overall credit portfolios; their willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to marine dealers; and the overall creditworthiness of those dealers. The Company’s sales could be adversely affected if BAC were to be terminated, if further declines in floorplan financing availability occur, or if financing terms become more adverse. This could require the Company to find alternative sources of financing, including the Company providing this financing directly to dealers, which could require additional capital to fund the associated receivables. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, trade names and other long-lived assets could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as the Company’s trade names, are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill and trade names, the Company makes assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require the Company to make certain assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill and trade name recoverability. Goodwill reviews are prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units based on market multiples of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) or on the estimated present value of future discounted cash flows. The Company could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill or trade names prior to the annual assessment if it experiences disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of the Company’s business or market capitalization declines. The Company also continually evaluates whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of its definite-lived intangible assets, excluding goodwill, and other long-lived assets may warrant revision or whether the remaining balance of such assets may not be recoverable. The Company uses an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flow over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. If the future operating performance of the Company’s reporting units is not consistent with the Company’s assumptions, the Company could be required to record additional non-cash impairment charges. Impairment charges could substantially affect the Company’s reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges could indicate a reduction in business value which could limit the Company’s ability to obtain adequate financing in the future. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $272.2 million of goodwill related to the Life Fitness segment and $20.3 million of goodwill related to the Marine Engine segment. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s total goodwill represented approximately 11 percent of total assets. The Company’s business requires it to maintain a large fixed cost base that can affect its profitability. The high levels of fixed costs of operating marine production plants can put pressure on profit margins. The Company’s profitability is dependent, in part, on its ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if the Company continues to reduce its rate of production, as it did in 2008 and 2009, gross margins will be negatively impacted. Decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower the Company’s ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact its results of operations. 11 Successfully establishing a smaller manufacturing footprint is critical to the Company’s operating and financial results. A significant component of the Company’s cost-reduction efforts has been focused on reducing its manufacturing footprint by consolidating boat and engine production into fewer plants. Since January 1, 2007, the Company has closed 14 of its boat manufacturing facilities. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2009, the Company announced plans to consolidate engine production by transferring sterndrive engine manufacturing operations from its Stillwater, Oklahoma plant to its Fond du Lac, Wisconsin plant. This plant consolidation effort is underway and is expected to occur throughout 2010 and 2011. Moving production to a different plant involves risks, including the inability to start up production within the cost and timeframe estimated, to supply product to dealers when expected and to attract a sufficient number of skilled workers to handle the additional production demands. The inability to successfully implement the Company’s manufacturing footprint initiatives could adversely affect its operating and financial results. Additionally, expenses associated with plant consolidation, including severance costs, pension funding requirements and loss of trained employees with knowledge of the Company’s business and operations could exceed projections and negatively impact financial results. The Company’s inability to successfully implement its restructuring initiatives and other uncertainties could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to successfully generate cash flow will depend on its continued successful execution of the Company’s restructuring initiatives and its plans to consolidate manufacturing operations, in order to return the Company’s marine operations to profitability. The Company is subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect its cash flow in the future. These include, among other things, the continued reduction in marine industry demand as a result of a weak global economy resulting in, among other things: (i) the failure of the Company’s customers to pay amounts owed or to pay amounts owed to it on a timely basis, or (ii) an increase in the Company’s obligations to repurchase its products or make recourse payments on customers’ debt obligations. The continuation of, or adverse change with respect to, one or more of these trends would weaken the Company’s competitive position and materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to satisfy its anticipated cash requirements. The Company relies on third-party suppliers for the supply of the raw materials, parts and components necessary to assemble its products. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected by an increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of or defect in raw materials, parts or product components. Outside suppliers and contract manufacturers provide the Company with raw materials used in its manufacturing processes including oil, aluminum, steel and resins, as well as product parts and components, such as engine blocks and boat windshields. The prices for these raw materials, parts and components fluctuate depending on market conditions. Substantial increases in the prices of the Company’s raw materials, parts and components would increase the Company’s operating costs, and could reduce its profitability if the Company cannot recoup the increased costs through increased product prices. In addition, some components used in the Company’s manufacturing processes, including engine blocks and boat windshields, are available from a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Financial difficulties or solvency problems that these or other suppliers currently face or may face in the future could adversely affect their ability to supply the Company with the parts and components it needs, which could significantly disrupt the Company’s operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement supplier for a limited or sole source raw material, part or component without significant delay or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a raw material, part or component, either unknown to the Company or incompatible with the Company’s manufacturing process, could harm the Company’s ability to manufacture products. An increase in the cost of, a shortage of, or defects or a sustained interruption in the supply of some of these raw materials, parts or products that may be caused by delayed start-up periods experienced by the Company’s suppliers as they ramp up production efforts, financial pressures on the Company’s suppliers due to the weakening economy, a deterioration of the Company’s relationships with suppliers or by events such as natural disasters, power outages or labor strikes, could disrupt the Company’s operations, impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to the Company’s customers and negatively affect the Company’s financial results. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. Additionally, as a result of recent worldwide economic conditions and the reduced demand for raw materials, parts, supplies and goods, many of the Company’s suppliers made the decision to slow or temporarily cease production in 2008 and 2009. Additionally, many of the Company’s suppliers have elected to reduce the size of their workforces. As the Company’s manufacturing operations continue to ramp up production in 2010, the Company’s need for raw materials and supplies will likewise increase. The Company’s suppliers must be prepared to resume operations and, in many cases, must recall or hire additional workers in order to fulfill the orders placed by the Company and other customers. In 2009, the Company began experiencing some supply shortages and continues working to address this issue by indentifying alternative suppliers, working to secure adequate inventories of critical supplies and continually monitoring its supplier base. During this transition period, however, the Company may continue to experience shortages of and delayed delivery of key materials, parts and supplies that are essential to its manufacturing operations. 12 The Company’s pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside of its control, including the performance of plan assets, the discount rate used to value liabilities, actuarial data and experience and legal and regulatory changes. The Company’s funding obligations and pension expense for its four qualified pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans’ liabilities, actuarial data and experience and legal and regulatory funding requirements. Changes in these factors can affect the accounting expense and cash funding requirements associated with these plans, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity. In addition, a significant percentage of the Company’s pension plan assets are invested in equity securities. Due to significant declines in worldwide financial market conditions, the funded status of the Company’s pension plans was adversely affected and the level of the Company’s funding of its pension liabilities has declined to approximately 60% (including the impact of non-qualified pension liabilities) as of December 31, 2009. The Company’s future pension expenses and funding requirements could further increase significantly due to the effect of the discount rate, changes in asset levels and a decline in the estimated return on plan assets. In addition, the Company could be legally required to make increased contributions to the pension plans, and these contributions could be material and negatively affect the Company’s cash flow. Higher energy costs can adversely affect the Company’s results, especially in the marine and retail bowling center businesses. Higher energy and fuel costs result in increases in operating expenses at the Company’s manufacturing facilities and in the cost of shipping products to customers. In addition, increases in energy costs can adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials such as resins and foam that are used in many of the Company’s marine products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on demand for marine retail products as they increase the cost of boat ownership. Finally, because heating and air conditioning comprise a significant part of the cost of operating a bowling center, any increase in the price of energy could adversely affect the operating margins of the Company’s bowling centers. The Company’s profitability may suffer as a result of competitive pricing and other pressures. The introduction of lower-priced alternative products by other companies can hurt the Company’s competitive position in all of its businesses. The Company is constantly subject to competitive pressures, particularly in the outboard engine market, in which predominantly Asian manufacturers often have pursued a strategy of aggressive pricing. Such pricing pressure has limited the Company’s ability to increase prices for its products in response to raw material and other cost increases and has negatively affected the Company’s profit margins and may continue to do so. The Company has also experienced pricing pressure from dealers with large unsold inventories and increasing levels of repossessed boats, and faces a meaningful volume of significantly discounted product coming into the market from failed or struggling manufacturers or dealers. In addition, the Company’s independent boat builder customers may react negatively to potential competition for their products from Brunswick’s own boat brands, which can lead them to purchase marine engines and marine engine supplies from competing marine engine manufacturers and may negatively affect demand for the Company’s products. 13 The Company’s ability to remain competitive depends on the successful introduction of new product offerings. The Company believes that its customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality, development capability and new product innovation. The Company’s ability to remain competitive may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products, gain market acceptance of new products, generate sufficient capital to fund new product development or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. Additionally, in 2008 and 2009, the Company decreased the amount spent on research and development and capital expenditures which, as a result, affects the number of new products it may be able to develop. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, the timing of market entry and pricing of new products are critical. As a result, the Company may not be able to introduce new products necessary to remain competitive in all markets that it serves. The Company competes with a variety of other activities for consumers’ scarce discretionary income and leisure time. The vast majority of the Company’s products are used for recreational purposes, and demand for the Company’s products can be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers’ leisure time, including other forms of recreation as well as religious, cultural and community activities. A decrease in discretionary income as a result of the current economic environment has reduced consumers’ willingness to purchase and enjoy the Company’s products. The Company’s success depends upon the continued strength of its brands. The Company believes that its brands, including Brunswick, Mercury, Sea Ray, Boston Whaler, Hatteras and Life Fitness, are significant contributors to the success of the Company’s business and that maintaining and enhancing the brands are important to expanding the Company’s customer base. Failure to protect the Company’s brands from infringers may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the services of key individuals, the loss of which could materially harm us. The Company’s operations depend, in part, on the efforts of the Company’s executive officers and other key employees. In addition, the Company’s future success will depend on, among other factors, its ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s restructuring activities, which have resulted in substantial employee terminations, may make it more difficult for the Company to attract or retain employees and it may be adversely affected for some time by the loss of trained employees with knowledge of the Company’s business and industries. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified individuals, or the Company’s costs to do so increase significantly, the Company’s operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company manufactures and sells products that create exposure to potential product liability, warranty liability, personal injury and property damage claims and litigation. The Company’s products may expose it to potential liabilities for product liability, warranty liability, personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of those products. The Company’s manufacturing consolidation efforts could result in a disruption to its production processes and its increased production rates could result in product quality issues, thereby increasing the risk of litigation and potential liability. Historically, the resolution of such claims has not materially adversely affected the Company’s business, and the Company maintains insurance which it believes to be adequate. However, the Company may experience material losses in the future, incur significant costs to defend claims or experience claims in excess of its insurance coverage or claims that will not be covered by insurance. Furthermore, the Company’s reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about its products. Environmental and zoning requirements can inhibit the Company’s ability to grow its marine businesses. Environmental restrictions, boat plant emission restrictions and permitting and zoning requirements can limit access to water for boating, as well as marina and storage space. In addition, certain jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States require or are considering requiring a license to operate a recreational boat. While such licensing requirements are not expected to be unduly restrictive, they may deter potential customers, thereby reducing the Company’s sales. 14 Compliance with environmental regulations affecting marine engines will increase costs and may reduce demand for the Company’s products. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recently adopted emission regulations requiring certain gasoline sterndrive and inboard engines to be equipped with a catalyst, with an effective date of January 1, 2010. It is possible that environmental regulatory bodies may impose higher emissions standards in the future for marine engines. Compliance with these standards would increase the cost to manufacture and the price to the customer of the Company’s engines, which could in turn reduce consumer demand for the Company’s marine products. Any increase in the cost of marine engines, an increase in the retail price to consumers or unforeseen delays in compliance with environmental regulations affecting these products could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s businesses may be adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental and other laws and regulations. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and other regulations, including exposure restrictions in connection with manufacturing processes. While the Company believes that it maintains all requisite licenses and permits and that it is in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, a failure to satisfy these and other regulatory requirements could cause the Company to incur fines or penalties or could increase its cost of operations. The adoption of additional laws, rules and regulations could also increase the Company’s capital or operations costs. The Company’s manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Accordingly, the Company is subject to regulations regarding these substances, and the misuse or mishandling of such substances could expose it to liabilities, including claims for property or natural resources damages, personal injury, or fines. The Company is also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of the Company’s current or former properties or another location where it has disposed of hazardous materials, the Company may be held liable for the contamination, regardless of knowledge or whether it was at fault in connection with the release, and the amount of such liability could be material. If the Company’s intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use its technologies and thereby reduce the Company’s ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company regards much of the technology underlying its products as proprietary. The steps the Company takes to protect its proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of the Company’s technology, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third party non-disclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect its technology and other intellectual property rights. The agreements may be breached or terminated, and the Company may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and existing patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws afford it limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is difficult. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use the Company’s products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for the Company to defend against claims of infringement or to protect its intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost. Further, the Company might not prevail in such litigation, which could harm its business. Some of the Company’s operations are conducted by joint ventures that it cannot operate solely for its benefit. Some of the Company’s operations are carried on through jointly owned companies such as BAC or Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine LLC (CMD), Mercury Marine’s joint venture with Cummins Marine, a division of Cummins Inc. With respect to these joint ventures, the Company shares ownership and management of these companies with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as the Company. These joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for the Company’s exclusive benefit. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect the Company’s results. Because the Company derives a portion of its revenues from outside the United States (42% in 2009), the Company’s financial performance can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies. The Company manufactures its products primarily in the United States and the costs of the Company’s products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, although the increasing manufacture and sourcing of products and materials outside the United States continues to be a strategic focus. The Company sells most of these products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a strong U.S. dollar can make the Company’s products less price-competitive relative to local products outside the United States. 15 Although the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to reduce its risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, it is impossible to hedge against all currency risk, especially over the long term, and changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is also exposed to the risk that its counterparties to hedging contracts could default on their obligations, which may have an adverse effect on the Company. A growing portion of the Company’s revenue may be derived from international sources, which exposes it to additional uncertainty. Approximately 42% of the Company’s 2009 sales were derived from sources outside of the United States, and the Company intends to continue to expand its international operations and customer base. Sales outside of the United States, especially in emerging markets, are subject to various risks including governmental embargoes or foreign trade restrictions, tariffs, fuel duties, inflation and political difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, compliance with international laws, treaties and regulations and unexpected changes in regulatory environments, disruptions in distribution, dependence on foreign personnel and unions, as well as economic and social instability. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash flow from non-U.S. subsidiaries. If the Company continues to expand its business globally, its success will depend, in part, on the Company’s ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. These and other factors may have a material impact on the Company’s international operations or its business as a whole. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative effect on marine and retail bowling center revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant effect on the Company’s operating and financial results, especially in the marine and retail bowling center businesses. Sales of the Company’s marine products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of the Company’s distribution channel. In addition, severely inclement weather on weekends and holidays, particularly during the winter months, can adversely affect patronage of the Company’s bowling centers and, therefore, revenues in the retail bowling center business. Additionally, in the event that climate change occurs, which could result in environmental changes including, but not limited to, severe weather, rising sea levels or reduced access to water, the Company's business could be disrupted and negatively impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 