Item 1A. Risk Factors Brunswick’s operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of Brunswick’s common stock. General economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, affect the Company’s results. Demand for Brunswick’s products is affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, especially in the United States and Europe. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects the Company’s financial performance, especially in its marine, consumer bowling, consumer fitness and billiards businesses. The Company’s businesses are cyclical in nature, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income levels. For example, retail unit sales of powerboats in the United States have been declining since 2005, with the rate of decline accelerating in 2008 due to a weak United States economy, soft housing markets in key United States boating states, and higher prices for everyday expenses that ultimately reduce the funds available for discretionary purchases. On an industry level, retail unit sales were down significantly during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, compared with the already low retail unit sales during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. 9 Any continued deterioration in general economic conditions that further diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may reduce Brunswick’s sales further and adversely affect the Company’s financial results, including the potential for future impairments. The impact of weakening consumer and corporate credit markets; continued reduction in marine industry demand; corporate restructurings; declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, especially in large boating markets such as Florida and California; higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation, all can negatively affect the Company’s results. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain effective distribution. The Company relies on third party dealers and distributors to sell the majority of its products, particularly in the marine business. The ability to maintain a reliable network of dealers is essential to the Company’s success. Continued weakness in the marine marketplace may adversely affect the ability of the Company’s dealers to sell marine products, potentially resulting in higher than desired dealer inventory levels, or to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations. If dealer inventory levels are higher than desired, dealers may postpone additional product purchases from Brunswick until the current inventory is sold, which may negatively affect the Company’s revenues. If dealers are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations, dealers may cease business and Brunswick may not be able to obtain alternate distribution in the relevant market. Brunswick’s independent boat builder customers also can react negatively to competition from Brunswick’s own boat brands, which can lead them to purchase marine engines and marine engine supplies from competing marine engine manufacturers. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected if the financial health of the Company’s dealers and distributors is adversely affected. The financial health of the Company’s distribution network, particularly in its marine businesses, is critical to the Company’s success. Weak demand for marine products may adversely affect the financial performance of the Company’s dealers. In particular, reduced cash flow from decreased sales and tighter credit markets may impair a dealer’s ability to fund operations. A continued inability to fund operations may force dealers to cease business, which may unfavorably affect Brunswick’s net sales and earnings from continuing operations through lower market exposure and the associated decline in sales. In addition, dealer inventory levels may be higher than desired and inventory may be aging beyond preferred levels. These factors may impair a dealer’s ability to purchase Brunswick products, secure financing for purchases, or meet payment obligations to Brunswick or the dealer’s third-party financing sources. If a dealer is unable to meet its obligations to third-party financing sources, Brunswick may be required to repurchase a portion of the defaulting dealer’s inventory from these third-party financing sources or it may experience credit losses as a result of its recourse obligations on customers’ debt obligations. The inability of the Company’s dealers and distributors to secure adequate access to capital could adversely affect the Company’s sales. Brunswick’s dealers require adequate liquidity to finance continuing operations, including purchases of Brunswick products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to financing sources and availability of financing on a timely basis or on reasonable terms. The majority of our domestic dealers utilize secured wholesale inventory floor-plan financing provided by Brunswick Acceptance Company (BAC), the Company’s joint venture with CDF Ventures, LLC, a subsidiary of GE Capital Corporation. If BAC or other providers of financing to the wholesale marine industry cease to provide dealer financing, decrease the amount of financing available to dealers or increase the costs related to dealer financing, the financial health of dealers may be harmed, resulting in the modification, delay or cancellation of additional dealer purchases of Brunswick product or cessation of dealer business operations. Such results could negatively impact Brunswick’s ability to sell boats and engines and therefore adversely affect the Company’s financial results. 10 Inventory reductions by major dealers, retailers and independent boat builders can adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If the Company’s boat and engine dealers and distributors, as well as independent boat builders who purchase Brunswick marine engine products, reduce their inventories in response to weakness in retail demand, wholesale demand for Brunswick products diminishes. In turn, Brunswick will need to reduce production, which results in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in the Company’s manufacturing facilities and thus lower margins. Inventory reduction by dealers and customers can hurt the Company’s short-term sales and results of operations and limit the Company’s ability to meet increased demand when economic conditions improve. Tighter credit markets can reduce demand, especially for marine products. Customers often finance purchases of Brunswick’s marine products, particularly boats. Rising interest rates can have an adverse effect on consumers’ ability to finance boat purchases, which can adversely affect Brunswick’s ability to sell boats and engines and the profitability of Brunswick’s financing activities, including those of BAC. Further, tighter credit markets may restrict funds available for retail financing for marine products or require higher credit scores from boat buyers. The Company’s restructuring initiatives, implemented as a result of the prolonged downturn in the U.S. marine market, could result in additional costs or be unsuccessful. As a result of the downturn in the U.S. marine market, the Company announced various restructuring initiatives in 2006, 2007 and 2008, resulting in severance and plant closure costs, asset write-downs and impairment charges. The Company expects to incur additional restructuring, exit and other impairment charges in 2009 as a result of these restructuring initiatives. The Company cannot assure that the restructuring plan will be successful or that further restructuring efforts will not be required, resulting in additional costs, write-downs or charges. If additional actions are required, Brunswick’s earnings could be adversely affected. Establishing a smaller manufacturing footprint is critical to the Company’s operating and financial results. A significant component in the Company’s cost-reduction efforts is establishing a smaller manufacturing footprint by consolidating boat production into fewer plants. Moving production to a new plant involves risks, including the inability to start up production within the cost and time estimated, supply product to dealers when expected, and attract a sufficient number of skilled workers to handle the additional production. The inability to successfully implement the manufacturing footprint initiatives could adversely affect Brunswick’s operating and financial results. A variety of trends could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Brunswick’s business. The ability to meet the Company’s capital requirements will depend on the continued successful execution of the restructuring initiatives and reductions to the manufacturing footprint to return Brunswick’s marine operations to profitability and positive cash flow. Brunswick is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect its cash flow and liquidity position in the future. These include, among other things, continued access to short-term borrowing sources; the continued ability to comply with credit facility covenants; the continued reduction in marine industry demand as a result of a weak global economy resulting in, among other things, (i) the failure of the Company’s customers to pay amounts owed to Brunswick or to pay amounts owed to Brunswick on a timely basis, or (ii) the obligation of the Company to repurchase Brunswick products or make recourse payments on customers’ debt obligations. The continuation of, or adverse change with respect to, one or more of these trends could weaken the Company’s liquidity position and materially adversely affect net revenues available for the Company’s anticipated cash needs. 11 Brunswick relies on third party suppliers for the supply of the raw materials, parts and components necessary to assemble Brunswick’s products. Brunswick’s financial results may be adversely affected by an increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of or defect in raw materials, parts or product components. Outside suppliers and contract manufacturers provide raw materials used in Brunswick’s manufacturing processes including oil, aluminum, steel and resins, as well as product parts and components, such as engine blocks and boat windshields. The prices for these raw materials, parts and components fluctuate depending on market conditions. Substantial increases in the prices for the Company’s raw materials, parts and components could increase the Company’s operating costs, and could reduce Brunswick’s profitability if the Company cannot recoup the increased costs through increased product prices. In addition, some components the Company uses in its manufacturing processes are available from a sole or limited number of suppliers. Financial difficulties or solvency problems at these or other suppliers could adversely affect their ability to supply Brunswick with the parts and components the Company needs, which could disrupt Brunswick’s operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement supplier for a limited or sole source raw material, part or component without significant delay or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a raw material, part or component, either unknown to the Company or incompatible with Brunswick’s manufacturing process, could harm Brunswick’s ability to manufacture products. An increase in the cost, defect or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, parts or products that may be caused by financial pressures on suppliers due to the weakening economy, a deterioration of Brunswick’s relationships with suppliers or by events such as natural disasters, power outages or labor strikes, could disrupt Brunswick’s operations and negatively impact Brunswick’s net revenues and profits. Brunswick’s pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside the Company’s control, including the performance of plan assets, the discount rate used to value liabilities, actuarial data and experience, and legal and regulatory changes. Brunswick’s funding obligations for its four qualified pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans’ liabilities, actuarial data and experience and legal and regulatory funding requirements. In addition, the majority of the Company’s pension plan assets are invested in equity securities. As market values of these securities decline, Brunswick’s pension expenses could increase significantly. In addition, Brunswick could be legally required to make increased contributions to the pension plans, and these contributions could be material. Higher energy costs can adversely affect Brunswick’s results, especially in the marine and retail bowling center businesses. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at Brunswick’s manufacturing facilities and in the cost of shipping products to customers. In addition, increases in energy costs can adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials such as resins and foam that are used in many of Brunswick’s marine products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on both demand for marine retail products as they increase the cost of boat ownership and on retail bowling sales as customers may choose to reduce fuel purchases for leisure or discretionary trips. Finally, because heating and air conditioning comprise a significant part of the cost of operating a bowling center, any increase in the price of energy could adversely affect the operating margins of Brunswick’s bowling centers. The Company’s profitability may suffer as a result of competitive pricing pressures. The introduction of lower-priced alternative products by other companies can hurt the Company’s competitive position in all of its businesses. The Company is constantly subject to competitive pressures, particularly in the outboard engine market, in which Asian manufacturers often have pursued a strategy of aggressive pricing. Such pricing pressure can limit the Company’s ability to increase prices for Brunswick’s products in response to raw material and other cost increases. The Company’s growth depends on the successful introduction of new product offerings. Brunswick’s ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products, gain market acceptance of new products, generate sufficient capital to fund new product development or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, the timing of market entry and pricing of new products are critical. 12 Licensing requirements and limited access to water can inhibit the Company’s ability to grow its marine businesses. Environmental restrictions, permitting and zoning requirements and the increasing cost of, and competition for, waterfront property can limit access to water for boating, as well as marina and storage space. Brunswick’s boat and marine engine segments can be adversely affected in areas that do not have sufficient marina and storage capacity to satisfy demand. Certain jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States require a license to operate a recreational boat, which can deter potential customers. Compliance with environmental regulations for marine engines will increase costs and may reduce demand for Brunswick products. The State of California adopted regulations requiring catalytic converters on sterndrive and inboard engines, which the Company expects will be expanded by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to apply to all states by 2010. Other environmental regulatory bodies may impose higher emissions standards in the future for engines. Compliance with these standards will increase the cost of Brunswick engines, which could in turn reduce consumer demand for Brunswick’s marine products. As a result, any increase in the cost of marine engines or unforeseen delays in compliance with environmental regulations affecting these products could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect the Company’s growth in international sales. Because the Company derives a portion of its revenues from outside the United States (44 percent in 2008), the Company’s ability to realize projected growth rates can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies. Brunswick manufactures its products primarily in the United States, and the costs of its products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, although the manufacture and sourcing of products and materials outside the United States is increasing. A strong U.S. dollar can make Brunswick products less price-competitive relative to local products outside the United States. The Company competes with a variety of other activities for consumers’ scarce leisure time and discretionary income. The vast majority of Brunswick’s products are used for recreational purposes, and demand for the Company’s products can be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers’ leisure time, including other forms of recreation as well as religious, cultural and community activities. A decrease in leisure time or discretionary income can reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase and enjoy Brunswick’s products. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative effect on marine and retail bowling center revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant effect on the Company’s operating and financial results, especially in the marine and bowling retail businesses. Sales of Brunswick’s marine products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of Brunswick’s distribution channel, as occurred in 2004, 2005 and 2008 on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States. Since many of Brunswick’s boat products are used on lakes and reservoirs, the viability of these for boating is important to Brunswick’s boat segment. In addition, severely inclement weather on weekends and holidays, particularly during the winter months, can adversely affect patronage of Brunswick’s bowling centers and, therefore, revenues in the bowling retail business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Item 