Item 1A. Risk Factors The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009 and continued economic stagnation in 2010. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve greatly in the near future. Furthermore, our primary market areas in southern Georgia and northern and central Florida have experienced continued deterioration in economic growth and employment than the rest of the country. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans for many lenders. Stock prices for financial institutions and their holding companies have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for those entities to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. The recent economic recession has been severe in our primary market areas of southern Georgia and north central Florida, and, if those local economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing loans decreases. Substantially all of our loans are located in southern Georgia and north central Florida. Our financial results may be affected adversely by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Continued decreases in real estate values in our primary market areas could affect adversely the value of real property used as collateral for our mortgage loans. As a result, the market value of the real estate underlying these loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to the remaining loan balance. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. In addition, adverse changes in the Georgia or Florida economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would also have an adverse impact on earnings. Unemployment levels in our Georgia and Florida market areas are higher than the national levels. According to data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for December 2010, the national unemployment rate for the United States was 9.4% compared to an average of 10.2% for our Georgia market areas and an average of 11.6% for our Florida market areas. Our two Florida market areas are expected to experience significantly smaller average population growth than they have experienced for the last decade. From 2000 to 2010, these market areas experienced average population growth of 28.6%, but they are expected to experience average population on growth of only 8.6% over the next five years. See “Business - Market Area.” 31 Our expansion efforts, particularly through new and acquired branches, may not be successful if we fail to manage our growth effectively. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand our branch network into communities within or adjacent to Georgia and Florida markets in which we currently conduct business. In 2006, we expanded our branch network outside of southwest Georgia for the first time with two branches in Ocala, Florida. In December 2009, we acquired a branch in Lake City, Florida in a private transaction and two branch offices in southeast Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction. In May 2010, we acquired four branches in southeast Georgia and one in southwest Georgia in another private transaction. In July 2010, we opened a de novo banking office in Valdosta, Georgia. In February 2011, we acquired four branches east of Savannah, Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction. We intend to continue to pursue a growth strategy for our business. Operating branches outside of our original southwest Georgia market and beyond our current market areas, may subject us to additional risk, including the local risks related to the new market areas, management of employees from a distance, additional credit risks, logistical operational issues and management time constraints. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities, and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have engaged in two FDIC-assisted transactions and may engage in more such transactions in the future, which could present additional risks to our financial condition and earnings. We have engaged in two FDIC-assisted acquisitions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks, even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. As is typical in the acquisition of a failed financial institution, many of the loans acquired in these acquisitions were non-performing and had poor documentation, including a lack of current financial information on borrowers and of current evidence of collateral value. In December 2009, we acquired a failed bank in southeast Georgia in an FDIC-assisted transaction, including $37.5 million in loans. This FDIC-assisted transaction did not involve a loss-share agreement pursuant to which the FDIC covers portions of the losses incurred or the assets acquired. We did, however, receive a $15.0 million purchase discount paid by the FDIC. The acquired loans had an average term of 1.96 years, mostly on longer amortization schedules and payments due less frequently than on a monthly basis. These loans are carried on our books at fair value, based on an estimate of future cash flows, which we review and evaluate quarterly and, under GAAP. Because of the condition and terms of these loans, the actual amount recognized by us on these assets could differ materially from this fair value, and we also anticipate incurring foreclosure and collection expenses on certain of these loans over the next five years, which will increase our non-interest expense. Therefore, we may incur losses on this acquired loan portfolio. In February 2011, we acquired another financial instituion in east Georgia with approximately $145 million in loans. We entered into a loss-share agreement under which the FDIC will reimburse for 80% of the losses on covered loans and other real estate owned. This loss-share agreement requires that we follow specific servicing and reporting procedures. Failure to properly follow these procedures or other breach of the loss share agreement by HeritageBank could result in the loss of the FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 In the current economic environment, we expect to be presented with more opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks through FDIC-assisted transactions. However, these acquisitions are structured in a manner that does not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition, including preparing for integration of an acquired institution. Therefore, we may face additional risks, including, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. Moreover, even though we are inclined to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction, we can offer no assurances that we would be successful in acquiring the financial institution or assets that we are seeking. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher than anticipated loan charge-offs on assets acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios that we have acquired such acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into a loss-share agreement with the FDIC providing that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired in connection with our February 2011 FDIC-assisted transaction will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss-share agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss-sharing agreements will not be reimbursable by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Purchased loans carry a greater level of risk than loans originated by us. As of December 31, 2010, $73.5 million or 17.5% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans purchased by us through bank and branch acquisitions. In addition, in February 2011, we acquired an additional $145.0 million in loans through our FDIC-assisted transactions. These purchased loans include residential mortgage, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans. Although we have performed due diligence on these loans, they were not originated by us, and therefore may not conform to the same underwriting standards as loans originated by us. In addition, these customers are not known to us, and we do not have a history of performance with these customers. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above those for loans originated by us. 33 Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our percentage of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2010, 35.3% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans to small and mid-sized businesses in our primary market areas, which are the types of businesses that have a heightened vulnerability to local economic conditions. Over the last several years, we have increased this type of lending from 28.3% of our portfolio at December 31, 2005, in order to improve the yield on our assets. At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio included $97.5 million of commercial real estate loans and $50.2 million of commercial business compared to $38.0 million and $33.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005. As a result, we have experienced an increase in non-performing commercial real estate and commercial business loans. See Item 1 - Business - Asset Quality -- Non-Performing Assets.” The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, as a result of our increasing emphasis on this type of lending, a large portion of our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios is relatively unseasoned. As a result, we may not have enough payment history upon which to judge future collectibility or to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Several of our commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to any one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Our consumer loan portfolio possesses increased risk. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $41.9 million, or 10.0%, of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, of which $16.4 million consisted of automobile loans and $16.6 million consisted of home equity lines of credit. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Because our indirect automobile loans, which totaled $8.7 million at December 31, 2010, were originated through a third party and not directly by us, they present greater risks than other types of lending activities. As a result of this portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. 34 Our business may be affected adversely by credit risk associated with residential property. As of December 31, 2010, residential mortgage loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, totaled $127.6 million, or 30.45%, of total loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values resulting from the downturn in local housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and has increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. In addition, borrowers seeking to sell their homes may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and sales prices, coupled with high levels and increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, which would adversely affect our capital and liquidity and could damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater impact on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions that have more diversified loan portfolios. We are subject to credit risks in connection with the concentration of adjustable rate loans in our portfolio. Adjustable rate loans made up 24.1% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2010. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable-rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, declining housing prices may prevent refinancing or a sale of the home, because borrowers have insufficient equity in their homes. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, non-perfoming troubled debt restructurings and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $13.6 million, which was a increase of $3.3 million or 32.0% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs including taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, potentially distracting them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.93% of gross loans and 81.47% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010, compared to 1.81% of gross loans and 71.61% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2009. Our allowance for loan losses, excluding purchased loans, was 2.34% of gross loans and 100.06% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010. 35 Our emphasis on originating commercial and one- to four- family real estate and commercial business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase our originations of these loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, resulting in decreased earnings. Our regulators and external auditor periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. These increases in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. HeritageBank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In addition, Heritage is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance and the Office of Thrift Supervision. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides for the creation of a consumer protection division at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that will have broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers. This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations. That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements and loan loss provisions for Heritage and HeritageBank and may increase interest expense due to the ability in July 2011 to pay interest on all demand deposits. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Recent regulatory changes impose limits on our ability to charge overdraft fees, which may decrease our non-interest income as compared to more recent prior periods. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. See “How We Are Regulated.” In this recent economic downturn, federal and state banking regulators have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which HeritageBank may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. For example, recent legislative proposals require changes to our overdraft protection programs that decrease the amount of fees we receive for these services. For the year ended December 31, 2010, overdraft protection and nonsufficient fund fees totaled $3.5 million. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. 36 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected significantly by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. Changes in interest rates also may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher-yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our portfolio of available-for-sale securities totaled $238.4 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $1.1 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $4.2 million, resulting in a net unrealized loss of $3.1 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s internal simulation model indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by 9.0% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset/Liability Management. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is increasing the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. HeritageBank offers adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. The availability of lower rates on fixed-rate loans would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, these adjustable-rate assets may prepay. At December 31, 2010, 24.09% of our loan portfolio consisted of adjustable-rate loans, compared to 34.1% at December 31, 2009. We also are managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. Customer demand is primarily for short-term certificates of deposit. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term, fixed-rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. We are utilizing Federal Home Loan Bank advances and repurchase agreements to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or entering into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities. Federal Home Loan Bank advances and repurchase agreements are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability. 37 A tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may affect asset growth, our earnings capability and capital levels negatively. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, including brokered deposits, as well as cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings, especially from the Federal Home Loan Bank and repurchase agreements, also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations or continued deterioration in credit markets. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by decreases in interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2010, the change in net unrealized losses on securities available for sale from the level at December 31, 2009 was an increase of $2.0 million. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has adopted a new deposit insurance premium assessment system to be effective April 1, 2011, in which assessments are calculated based on all liabilities, not just deposits at assessment rates that are intended to keep current levels of assessments substantially the same. To the extent we increase our non-deposit liabilities or are determined to bear certain additional risk to the deposit insurance fund. Future increases in our assessment rate or levels or any special assessments would decrease our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, securities brokers and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Because of the many recent bank failures in Georgia and Florida, a number of new competitors that have acquired failed banks have entered our primary market areas. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. 38 System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The ownership interest of management and employees could enable insiders to prevent a merger that may provide stockholders a premium for their shares. Our directors and executive officers own 374,718 shares, or 4.3%, of the Company’s common stock and options for an additional 247,704 shares. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan owns 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Heritage common stock. We intend to ask stockholders to approve a new stock option and restricted stock plan for up to 573,481 shares at our 2011 annual meeting. Additional stock options and shares of common stock may be granted to our directors and employees if this stock-based incentive plan is adopted. This may result in management, directors and employees controlling a significant percentage of shares of Heritage common stock. If these individuals were to act together, they could have significant influence over the outcome of any stockholder vote. This voting power may discourage a potential sale of Heritage that its public stockholders may desire. 39 The implementation of the stock-based incentive plan may dilute your ownership interest. We intend to adopt a new stock-based incentive plan following the offering, subject to receipt of stockholder approval. Historically, the overwhelming majority of stock-based benefit plans adopted by savings institutions and their holding companies following mutual-to-stock conversions have been approved by stockholders. This stock-based incentive plan may be funded either through open market purchases or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock of Heritage. While our intention is to fund this plan through open market purchases, stockholders would experience a 6.2% reduction in ownership interest in the event 573,481 newly issued shares of our common stock are used to fund stock options and shares of restricted common stock under the new plan. Additional expenses from the compensation and benefit expenses associated with the implementation of any new stock-based incentive benefit plan will affect our profitability adversely. If the new stock-based incentive plan is implemented, our non-interest expenses are likely to increase as we will recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses related to the shares granted to employees, executives and directors under our stock-based incentive plan. We cannot predict the actual amount of these new stock-related compensation and benefit expenses because applicable accounting practices require that expenses be based on the fair market value of the shares of common stock at specific points in the future; however, we expect them to be material. In addition, we will recognize expense for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts (i.e., as the loan used to acquire these shares is repaid), and we will recognize expense for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Heritage. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Georgia and Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Heritage without the consent of our Board of Directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 