ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risk factors related to Parametric Sound. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, expect additional losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses since our spin-off and expect additional losses until we achieve revenues and resulting margins to offset our operating costs. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 was $1,484,458. Our ability to achieve future profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many outside our control. Failure to achieve profitability or sustain profitability, if achieved, may require us to continue to obtain additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock or be dilutive. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their audit opinion issued in connection with our financial statements as of September 30, 2011 and 2010 and for the years then ended, our independent registered public accounting firm included a going concern explanatory paragraph which stated there was substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis that contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that would be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to liquidate our assets and discharge our liabilities in other than the normal course of business and at amounts different from those reflected in our financial statements. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose a substantial portion or all of their investment. 9 We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and continued difficult economic circumstances in our industry or a reduction in spending by customers could adversely affect our operating results. The electronics industry in general has historically been characterized by a high degree of volatility and is subject to substantial and unpredictable variations resulting from changing business cycles. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular conditions that impact advertising including discretionary consumer spending. The audio products sector of the electronics industry has and may continue to experience a slowdown in sales, which adversely impacts our ability to generate revenues and impacts the results of our future operations. The current tight credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in an absence of orders or spending for our products as well as create supplier disruptions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the adverse economic conditions and disruptions in financial markets and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. We purchase a number of key components and subassemblies from foreign suppliers. Consequently, we are subject to the impact economic conditions can have on such suppliers and subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases in our cost of purchasing these items could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. We must develop a larger customer base in order to grow our business. While we have retained some customers from LRAD Corporation’s prior HSS business, to grow our business, we must develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill increased orders from both prior and new customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop a larger customer base. Further, even if we continue to retain prior customers and obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase sufficient quantities of our products at prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling orders. Our ability to increase sales of our products depends on a number of factors, including: ● our ability to timely manufacture reliable products that have the features required by our customers; ● our ability to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to sales of our products; ● our ability to develop and expand new markets for directed audio products; and ● our ability to develop international product distribution directly or through partners. Errors or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards, product injury claims or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, increased warranty costs or damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Our technology is substantially different from proven, mass-produced sound transducer designs. Any defects or errors in the operation of our products could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources, increased customer service, adverse regulatory actions and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at some point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, injury or other loss to customers, and may injure our reputation and increase our warranty or service costs. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. Defects and/or warranty costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. Third parties could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us. We have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall, and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, cause a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources adversely affecting our financial results. 10 Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products is dependent upon technology that is subject to the license from Syzygy. We license from Syzygy patent pending technology that we are using to produce our HSS-3000 product line. The license may terminate if we do not use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue the parametric sound business. Although we expect to avoid a termination for non-use, if we are unable to retain the benefits of the technology owned by Syzygy, we may be unable to sell our products and grow our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Conflicts of interest may arise relating to our license with Syzygy and otherwise. Certain conflicts of interest now exist and will continue to exist between us and our executive officers and directors due to the fact that they have other employment, business and investment interests to which they devote some attention and they are expected to continue to do so. Our executive officers also manage and control Syzygy a licensing company that owns and licenses to us certain technology for producing parametric sound and certain conflicts could arise in future dealings between Syzygy and us. For example, we may not sublicense without the permission of Syzygy and sublicense royalty rates are subject to future negotiation in good faith. We have not established policies or procedures for the resolution of current or potential conflicts of interest between us and management or management-affiliated entities including Syzygy. There can be no assurance that members of management will resolve all conflicts of interest in our favor. Officers and directors are accountable to our Company as fiduciaries, which means that they are legally obligated to exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. Failure by them to conduct our business in our best interests may result in liability to them. While our directors and officers may be excluded from liability for certain actions pursuant to indemnification agreements, there is no assurance that our officers and directors would be excluded from liability or indemnified if they breach their loyalty to our Company. Our revenues are derived from a single product category and a limited number of products. We are dependent on one core product category and limited products to generate revenues. We cannot assure you that these or other future products will achieve customer acceptance to attain a level of sales to support our operating costs. The loss or failure of this product category would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We cannot predict our future operating results. Our quarterly and annual results will likely be subject to fluctuations caused by many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one or more of these factors, including those listed below, could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: ● our ability to supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors, VARs or OEMs or in the future to license our technologies; ● market acceptance of, and changes in demand for, our products or our customers’ products; ● gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; ● unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; ● the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products; ● fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; ● timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; ● product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; ● unpredictable warranty costs associated with our products; ● installation or order delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or production delays by us or our suppliers; ● general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; ● general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and ● general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we intend to offer. 11 Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies and, therefore, adversely affect our future operating results. Our expenses may vary from period to period, which could affect quarterly results and our stock price. If we incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we do not experience increased revenue, our results of operations will be adversely affected and we may incur larger losses than anticipated for that quarter. Factors that could cause our expenses to fluctuate from period to period include: ● the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; ● tooling, manufacturing and production working capital costs; ● investments and costs of maintaining or protecting our intellectual property; ● the extent of marketing and sales efforts to promote our products and technologies; and ● the timing of personnel and consultant hiring. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and more established electronic and sound system manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and larger facilities than us, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. The life cycles of our technologies are difficult to estimate. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our technologies do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot maintain and obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop similar technology and the agreements we enter into to protect our proprietary rights may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection of our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position could be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection, or may be too costly to enforce protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products may be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in these countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. 12 Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, resulting in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: ● cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; ● obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and ● redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our technology is subject to government regulation, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations and is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. In the event of certain unanticipated defects in our products, a customer or we may be required to comply with FDA requirements to remedy the defect and/or notify consumers of the problem. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our parametric sound technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Since our products include ultrasonic emissions along with the acoustic output, customers or others could claim damage to human hearing or human health irrespective if the product is used properly or improperly, such as when the product is used at extreme close ranges for long periods of exposure. A person claiming injury in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. While we have product liability insurance, it may be too costly for us or may be unavailable and it may be insufficient to pay any claims. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. We rely on outside suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products. Our products have a number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on one piezo-film supplier to provide expertise and materials used in our proprietary emitters and one supplier for a majority of our plastic and metal parts. If shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. 13 Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead, cadmium and other substances. We do not expect that the impact of these environmental laws and other similar legislation adopted in the U.S. and other countries will have a substantial unfavorable impact on our business. However, the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. Inadequate internal controls or accounting practices and material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to errors or restatements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our small size and limited personnel make maintaining internal controls and management oversight systems more challenging than for more established and larger entities. We are subject to rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. After documenting and testing our system, we identified a material weakness in our accounting and financial functions due to a lack of segregation of duties primarily resulting from our limited staffing. As a result, our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. As a result of our internal control over financial reporting being ineffective, we are more susceptible to errors or restatement and investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price might be adversely affected. In addition, remedying this or any future material weaknesses that we might identify could require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we might implement to remedy any such deficiencies would effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. Our business is substantially dependent on our chief executive officer, Elwood G. Norris, and other key personnel. The loss of Mr. Norris or any of these key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies like ours is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products, attract customers and meet customer shipments. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock There can be no assurance that an active trading market for shares of our common stock will continue. Shares of our common stock have only been publicly traded since October 2010 and trading has been sporadic and volatile. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our Company will create or sustain an active trading market in our common stock or how liquid such a market will be in the future. It is possible that an active trading market will not develop and there can be no assurance as to the price at which our common stock will trade. We are not currently the subject of research analyst coverage. The absence of research analyst coverage can adversely affect the market value and liquidity of an equity security. We cannot predict the price range or volatility of our common stock and sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, the market price and volume of shares traded of companies in the industries in which we operate experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and developments generally affecting our industries or the economy may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: ● general economic, market and political conditions; ● quarterly variations in results of operations or results of operations that are below public market analyst and investor expectations; ● changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; ● operating and market price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; ● press releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our markets; and ● sales of common stock or other securities by insiders. 14 In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, investor perception and the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. All of the shares of our common stock, other than the shares held by executive officers and directors, are eligible for resale in the public market. Substantial selling of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Penny Stock Regulations Affect Our Stock Price, Which May Make It More Difficult For Investors To Sell Their Stock. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks” are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, and investors may find it more difficult to sell their securities. It is likely that we will issue additional common stock in the future. The issuance of additional common stock may reduce the value of your common stock. It is likely that we will issue additional shares of common stock without further action by our stockholders. Moreover, the economic and voting interests of each stockholder will be diluted as a result of such issuances. Although the number of shares of common stock that stockholders presently own will not decrease, such shares will represent a smaller percentage of the total shares that will be outstanding after the issuance of additional shares. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of any existing or future options or warrants may lower the price of our common stock. We have a stock option plan authorizing the grant of options to purchase up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock to our employees, directors and consultants. We have warrants on up to 1,600,000 common shares outstanding as part of an equity financing and may issue common stock purchase warrants or other securities convertible into common stock in the future. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of convertible securities, options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to existing holders of common stock, and the sale of those shares in the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The potential dilution from the issuance of these shares could negatively affect the terms on which we are able to obtain equity financing. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of your common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Preferred stock terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The declaration and amount of future dividends, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors our Board deems relevant. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 