Item 1A. Risk Factors General economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, affect Brunswick’s results. Brunswick’s revenues are affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, but especially in the United States and Europe. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects demand for Brunswick’s products, especially in its marine and billiards businesses. Brunswick’s marine businesses are cyclical in nature, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income levels. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income can reduce Brunswick’s sales and adversely affect its financial results. Corporate restructurings, layoffs, declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation all can negatively affect Brunswick’s results. Brunswick’s profitability may suffer as a result of competitive pricing pressures. The introduction of lower-priced alternative products by other companies can hurt Brunswick’s competitive position in all of its businesses. The Company is constantly subject to competitive pressures, particularly in the outboard engine market, in which Asian manufacturers often have pursued a strategy of aggressive pricing. Such pricing pressure can limit the Company’s ability to increase prices for its products in response to raw material and other cost increases. Brunswick’s growth depends on the successful introduction of new product offerings. Brunswick’s ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products, gain market acceptance of new products or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, the timing of market entry and pricing of new products are critical. Managing the transition to lower-margin products, particularly in Brunswick’s Marine Engine segment, is critical to its operating and financial results. Brunswick has historically derived a significant portion of its earnings from sales of higher-margin products, especially in its outboard engine business. The Marine Engine segment has now completed a transition to manufacturing primarily low-emission four-stroke outboard engines, which have lower margins than the two-stroke products they are replacing. The Company has addressed this margin pressure by relocating some outboard engine manufacturing to lower-cost areas such as China. The Company is also in the process of relocating its bowling ball and Valley-Dynamo billiards table manufacturing to Mexico, where it already manufactures boats. Brunswick’s inability to achieve lower-cost manufacturing, as well as increased competition in the product lines affected, could adversely affect its future operating and financial results. Brunswick’s financial results may be adversely affected if the Company is unable to maintain effective distribution. Because Brunswick sells the majority of its products through third parties such as dealers and distributors, the financial health of its distribution network is critical to Brunswick’s success. Brunswick’s results can be negatively affected if dealers and distributors experience higher operating costs, which can result from rising interest rates, higher rents, labor costs and taxes, and compliance with regulations. In addition, a substantial portion of Brunswick’s marine engine sales are made to boat manufacturers not affiliated with Brunswick. Accordingly, the results of the Marine Engine segment can be influenced by the financial health of these independent boat builders, which depends on their access to capital, ability to develop new products and ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Brunswick’s independent boat builder customers also can react negatively to the Boat Group’s acquisition of competing independent boat builders, which can lead them to seek marine engine supplies from competing marine engine manufacturers. 9 Inventory adjustments by major dealers, retailers and independent boat builders adversely affect Brunswick’s operating margins. If Brunswick’s dealers and retailers, as well as independent boat builders who purchase Brunswick’s marine engine products, adjust their inventories downward in response to weakness in retail demand, wholesale demand for Brunswick’s products diminishes. In turn, the Company must reduce production, which results in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in its manufacturing facilities and thus lower margins. Inventory reduction by dealers and customers can hurt Brunswick’s short-term sales and results of operations and limit its ability to meet increased demand when economic conditions improve. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative effect on marine and retail bowling center revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant effect on Brunswick’s operating and financial results, especially in the marine and bowling retail businesses. Sales of Brunswick’s marine products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of the Company’s distribution channel, as occurred in 2004 and 2005 on the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Since many of Brunswick’s boat products are used on reservoirs, the viability of reservoirs for boating is important to the Boat segment. In addition, severely inclement weather on weekends and holidays, particularly during the winter months, can adversely affect patronage of Brunswick’s bowling centers and, therefore, revenues in the bowling retail business. The Company’s ability to integrate acquisitions successfully may affect its financial results. Since 2001, Brunswick has acquired a number of new businesses and entered into joint ventures, and it intends to continue to pursue other strategic investments to complement its existing product portfolio. The Company’s success in achieving the requisite investment return and effectively integrating the financial, operational and distribution practices and systems of these businesses can affect Brunswick’s financial performance. There can be no assurance that any future acquisitions or joint ventures will be beneficial to Brunswick. The Company’s ability to complete the announced divestiture of its BNT business unit may affect its financial results and position. The possible risks related to the divestiture of BNT's businesses include delays in completing transactions, lower-than-expected proceeds and post-closing claims for indemnification. Licensing requirements and limited access to water can inhibit Brunswick’s ability to grow its marine businesses. Environmental restrictions, permitting and zoning requirements and the increasing cost of and competition for waterfront property can limit access to water for boating, as well as marina and storage space. Brunswick’s Boat and Marine Engine segments can be adversely affected in areas that do not have sufficient marina and storage capacity to satisfy demand. Certain jurisdictions both in and outside the United States require a license to operate a recreational boat, which can deter potential customers. Brunswick’s marine engines may be subject to more stringent environmental regulations. The State of California has adopted regulations requiring catalytic converters on Brunswick’s sterndrive and inboard engines by January 1, 2008. The Company expects to comply fully with these regulations, but compliance will increase the cost of these products. Other environmental regulatory bodies in the United States or other countries also may impose higher emissions standards in the future for Brunswick’s engines. These standards could require catalytic converters, increasing the cost of Brunswick's engines, which could in turn reduce consumer demand for Brunswick’s products. As a result, any increase in the cost of Brunswick’s engines or unforeseen delays in compliance with environmental regulations affecting these products could have an adverse effect on Brunswick’s results of operations. 10 Higher energy costs can adversely affect Brunswick’s results, especially in the marine and bowling center businesses. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at the Company’s manufacturing facilities and in the cost of shipping products to customers. In addition, increases in energy costs can adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials such as resins and foam that are used in many of Brunswick’s marine products. Finally, because heating, air conditioning and electricity comprise a significant part of the cost of operating a bowling center, any increase in the price of energy could adversely affect the operating margins of Brunswick bowling centers. Higher interest rates can reduce demand, especially for marine products. Customers often finance purchases of Brunswick’s marine products, particularly boats. Rising interest rates can have an adverse effect on dealers’ and consumers’ ability to finance boat purchases, which can adversely affect both the Company’s ability to sell boats and the profitability of its finance activities, including Brunswick Acceptance Company. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect Brunswick’s growth rate. Because the Company derives approximately 32 percent of its revenues from sales outside the United States, its ability to realize projected growth rates can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies. Brunswick manufactures its products primarily in the United States, and the costs of its products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, although manufacturing products and sourcing materials outside the United States are increasing. A strong U.S. dollar can make Brunswick’s products less price-competitive relative to local products outside the United States. Brunswick’s business is vulnerable to adverse international conditions. As Brunswick continues to focus on international growth, including in developing countries, and on lower-cost manufacturing outside the United States, it may become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability, adverse economic conditions and the possibility of terrorism, insurrection and military conflict around the world. Brunswick competes with a variety of other activities for consumers’ scarce leisure time. All of Brunswick’s products are used for recreational purposes, and demand for its products can be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers’ leisure time, including other forms of recreation as well as religious, cultural and community activities. A decrease in leisure time can reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase and enjoy Brunswick’s products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 