Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe Company's operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of the Company's common stock. Worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, have adversely affected the Company's industries, businesses and results of operations and may continue to do so. General worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Europe, continue to be challenging as economies begin to recover from the effects caused by the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which adversely affects the Company's financial performance, especially in its marine businesses. A majority of the Company's businesses are cyclical in nature and are highly sensitive to personal discretionary spending levels, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and personal income levels. Other factors that can negatively affect the Company's financial results include: the impact of weak consumer and corporate credit markets; depressed marine industry demand; corporate restructurings; declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, especially in large boating markets such as Florida and California; and higher fuel prices. Demand for the Company's marine products has been significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, low consumer confidence, high unemployment and increased market volatility worldwide, especially in the United States and Europe. Although increases have not been experienced in all product segments and geographic markets, and the Company estimates that retail unit sales of powerboats in the United States increased modestly during 2012, unit sales remain down significantly from historical levels, particularly in the fiberglass segment. Any deterioration in general economic conditions that further diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may further reduce the Company's sales and adversely affect its financial results, including increasing the potential for future impairment charges. The Company cannot predict the timing or strength of economic recovery, either worldwide or in the specific markets where it competes. Fiscal concerns in the United States and Europe, including the downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating, may negatively impact the worldwide economy, and could have an adverse effect on the Company's industries, businesses and financial condition. Concerns regarding the U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit, as well as the European debt crisis, could have an adverse effect on worldwide economic conditions. These concerns also include the potential impact of additional credit agency downgrades. Such fiscal concerns and the resulting downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating could have a material adverse impact on worldwide economic conditions, the financial markets and the availability of credit and, consequently, may negatively affect the Company's industries, businesses and overall financial condition.Although consumer credit markets have improved, consumer credit market conditions continue to influence demand, especially for marine products, and may continue to do so. Customers often finance purchases of the Company's marine products, particularly boats. Credit market conditions continued to improve in 2012, but remained less favorable overall than those experienced prior to the decline in marine retail demand. While interest rates are generally lower, there continue to be fewer lenders, tighter underwriting and loan approval criteria and greater down payment requirements. If credit conditions worsen, and adversely affect the ability of customers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a decrease in sales of the Company's products or delay any improvement in its sales. The inability of the Company's dealers and distributors to secure adequate access to capital could adversely affect the Company's sales. The Company's dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchases of the Company's products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These sources of financing are vital to the Company's ability to sell products through the Company's distribution network, particularly to its boat and engine dealers. During the credit crisis which ensued during and after the 2009 recession, several third-party floorplan lenders ceased their lending operations or materially reduced their exposure. A significant portion of the Company's domestic and 9international boat and engine sales to dealers are financed through entities affiliated with GE Capital Corporation (GECC), including BAC (the Company's 49 percent owned joint venture, with the other 51 percent being owned by CDFV, a subsidiary of GECC), which provides floorplan financing to domestic marine dealers. The availability and terms of financing offered by the Company's dealer floorplan financing providers will continue to be influenced by: their ability to access certain capital markets, including the securitization and the commercial paper markets, and to fund their operations in a cost effective manner; the performance of their overall credit portfolios; their willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to marine dealers; and the overall creditworthiness of those dealers. The Company's sales could be adversely affected if BAC were to be terminated, if further declines in floorplan financing availability occur, or if financing terms change unfavorably. This could require the Company to find alternative sources of financing, including the Company providing this financing directly to dealers, which could require additional capital to fund the associated receivables. The Company's financial results may be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain effective distribution. The Company relies on third-party dealers and distributors to sell the majority of its products, particularly in the marine business. The ability to maintain a reliable network of dealers is essential to the Company's success. The Company faces competition from other boat manufacturers in attracting and retaining distributors and independent boat dealers. A significant deterioration in the number or effectiveness of the Company's dealers and distributors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Weakening demand for marine products could adversely affect the financial performance of the Company's dealers. In particular, reduced cash flow from decreases in sales and tightening credit markets may impair a dealer's ability to fund operations. Inability to fund operations can force dealers to cease business, and the Company may not be able to obtain alternate distribution in the vacated market. An inability to obtain alternate distribution could unfavorably affect the Company's net sales through reduced market presence. If conditions were to worsen, the Company anticipates that dealer failures or voluntary market exits could increase, especially if overall retail demand for boats declines. Adverse economic, credit and capital market conditions could have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. The Company does not frequently rely on short-term capital markets to meet its working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, pay dividends, or fund employee benefit programs; however, the Company does maintain short-term borrowing facilities which can be used to meet these capital requirements. In addition, over the long term, the Company may determine that it is necessary to access the capital markets to refinance existing long-term indebtedness or for other initiatives. Adverse global economic conditions, market volatility and heightened governmental regulation could lead to volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. This could adversely affect the Company's ability to access capital and credit markets or increase the cost to do so, which could have a negative impact on its business, financial results and competitive position. Inventory reductions by major dealers, retailers and independent boat builders could adversely affect the Company's financial results. The Company's dealers, retailers and other distributors could decide to reduce the number of units they hold, especially in the large fiberglass boat segment. Such efforts would likely result in lower production levels of the Company's products, thus resulting in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in the Company's manufacturing facilities and lower margins. While actions taken continue to keep dealer inventories at appropriate levels, the potential need for future inventory reductions by dealers and independent boatbuilder customers could impair the Company's future sales and results of operations. The Company may be required to repurchase inventory or accounts of certain dealers. The Company has agreements with certain third-party finance companies to provide financing to the Company's customers to enable the purchase of its products. In connection with these agreements, the Company either may have obligations to repurchase the Company's products from the finance company, or may have recourse obligations to the finance company on the dealer's receivables. These obligations are triggered if the Company's dealers default on their debt obligations to the finance companies. The Company's maximum contingent obligation to repurchase inventory and its maximum contingent recourse obligations on customer receivables are less than the total balances of dealer financings outstanding under these programs, as the Company's obligations under certain of these arrangements are subject to caps, or are limited based on the age of product. The Company's risk related to these arrangements is mitigated by the proceeds it receives on the resale of repurchased product to other dealers, or by recoveries on receivables purchased under the recourse obligations.10The Company's inventory repurchase obligations relate primarily to the inventory floorplan credit facilities of the Company's boat and engine dealers. The Company's actual historical repurchase experience related to these repurchase arrangements has been substantially less than the Company's maximum contractual obligations. If dealers file for bankruptcy or cease operations, losses associated with the repurchase of the Company's products could be incurred. In addition, as the repurchases may be triggered by dealer bankruptcies, the Company's net sales and earnings may be unfavorably affected as a result of reduced market coverage and the associated decline in sales. Declines in marine industry demand could cause an increase in future repurchase activity, or could require the Company to incur losses in excess of established reserves. In addition, the Company's cash flow and loss experience could be adversely affected if repurchased inventory is not successfully distributed to other dealers in a timely manner, or if the recovery rate on the resale of the product declines. In addition, the finance companies could require changes in repurchase or recourse terms that would result in an increase in the Company's contractual contingent obligations. The loss of key accounts or critical suppliers could harm the Company's business. If the Company were to experience the loss of a key account, its business could be negatively affected in a significant way. Similarly, if one of the Company's most critical suppliers were to close its operations, cease manufacturing or otherwise fail to deliver an essential component necessary to the Company's manufacturing operations, it could have a detrimental effect on the Company's ability to manufacture and sell its products, resulting in an interruption in business operations and/or a loss of sales. In an effort to mitigate the risk associated with the Company's reliance on such accounts and suppliers, it continually works to monitor such relationships, maintain a complete and competitive product lineup and identify alternative suppliers for key components. The Company's success depends upon the continued strength of its brands. The Company believes that its brands, including Brunswick, Mercury, Sea Ray, Boston Whaler and Life Fitness, are significant contributors to the success of the Company's business and that maintaining and enhancing the brands are important to expanding the Company's customer base. Failure to continue to promote and protect the Company's brands may adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company has a large fixed cost base that can affect its profitability in a declining sales environment. The fixed cost levels of operating marine production plants can put pressure on profit margins when sales and production decline. The Company's profitability is dependent, in part, on its ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if the Company makes a decision to reduce its rate of production, gross margins could be negatively affected. Consequently, decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower the Company's ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact its results of operations. Successfully managing its manufacturing footprint is critical to the Company's operating and financial results. A significant component of the Company's cost-reduction efforts has been a focus on reducing its manufacturing footprint by consolidating boat and engine production into fewer plants. In the second quarter of 2012, the Company completed the consolidation of engine production by transferring sterndrive engine manufacturing operations from its Stillwater, Oklahoma plant to its Fond du Lac, Wisconsin plant. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company began the consolidation of its Knoxville, Tennessee boat plant operation into its manufacturing facilities in Vonore, Tennessee and Palm Coast, Florida. This transition is expected to conclude in 2013. Moving production to a different plant involves risks, including the inability to start up production within the cost and timeframe estimated, supply product to customers when expected and attract a sufficient number of skilled workers to handle the additional production demands. The inability to successfully implement the Company's manufacturing footprint initiatives could adversely affect its ability to meet customer demand for products and could increase the cost of production versus projections, both of which could result in a significant adverse impact on operating and financial results. Additionally, expenses associated with plant consolidation, including severance costs and loss of trained employees with knowledge of the Company's business and operations, could exceed projections and negatively impact financial results.To successfully manage its manufacturing footprint, the Company also must enable growth through strategic capital investments including facility and capacity expansion projects. These capital improvement projects and expansions must be carefully managed to ensure cost targets are met, environmental, safety and other regulations are followed and high-quality workmanship is maintained. 11If the Company is not able to successfully implement its restructuring and growth initiatives, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition. The Company's ability to successfully generate cash flow will depend on its continued successful execution of the Company's restructuring and growth initiatives. Demand for certain of the Company's marine products continues at historically low levels, mainly as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. As a result, the Company has taken, and may in the future take additional global restructuring activities to realign its cost structure with existing demand. The occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact the Company's cash flow, results of operations or financial condition.The Company relies on third-party suppliers for the supply of the raw materials, parts and components necessary to manufacture its products. The Company's financial results may be adversely affected by an increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of or defect in raw materials, parts or product components. Outside suppliers and contract manufacturers provide the Company with raw materials used in its manufacturing processes including oil, aluminum, copper, steel and resins, as well as product parts and components, such as engine blocks and boat windshields. The prices for these raw materials, parts and components fluctuate depending on market conditions and in some instances, commodity prices. Substantial increases in the prices of the Company's raw materials, parts and components would increase the Company's operating costs, and could reduce its profitability if the Company cannot recoup the increased costs through increased product prices. In addition, some components used in the Company's manufacturing processes, including engine blocks and boat windshields, are available from a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Operational and financial difficulties that these or other suppliers may face in the future could adversely affect their ability to supply the Company with the parts and components it needs, which could significantly disrupt the Company's operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement supplier for a limited or sole source raw material, part or component without significant delay or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier's variation in a raw material, part or component, either unknown to the Company or incompatible with the Company's manufacturing process, could harm the Company's ability to manufacture products. Some of the risks that could disrupt the Company's operations, impair the Company's ability to deliver products to the Company's customers and negatively affect the Company's financial results include: an increase in the cost of, defects in or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, parts or products that may be caused by delayed start-up periods experienced by the Company's suppliers as they increase production efforts; financial pressures on the Company's suppliers due to a weakening economy; and a deterioration of the Company's relationships with suppliers or by events such as natural disasters, power outages or labor strikes. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. The Company's manufacturing operations increased production in 2012 and are expected continue to do so in 2013, and consequently, the Company's need for raw materials and supplies will increase. The Company's suppliers must be prepared to ramp up operations and, in many cases, hire additional workers and/or expand capacity in order to fulfill the orders placed by the Company and other customers. The Company experienced periodic supply shortages in 2010, 2011 and 2012. The Company continues to work to address this issue by identifying alternative suppliers, working to secure adequate inventories of critical supplies and continually monitoring the capabilities of its supplier base. In the future, however, the Company may continue to experience shortages of, delayed delivery of and/or increased prices for key materials, parts and supplies that are essential to its manufacturing operations. The Company's pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside its control, including the performance of plan assets, the discount rate used to value liabilities, actuarial data and experience and legal and regulatory changes. The Company's funding obligations and pension expense for its four qualified pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans' liabilities, actuarial data and experience and legal and regulatory funding requirements. Changes in these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. In addition, a portion of the Company's pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, which can experience significant declines if financial markets weaken. The level of the Company's funding of its qualified pension plan liabilities was approximately 67 percent as of December 31, 2012. The Company's future pension expenses and funding requirements could increase significantly due to the effect of adverse changes in the discount rate and asset levels along with a decline in the estimated return on plan assets. In addition, as a result of changes in regulations, the Company could be legally 12required to make increased contributions to the pension plans, and these contributions could be material and negatively affect the Company's cash flow. Higher energy and fuel costs can adversely affect the Company's results. Higher energy and fuel costs result in increases in operating expenses at the Company's manufacturing facilities and in the cost of shipping products to customers. In addition, increases in energy costs can adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials such as resins and foam that are used in many of the Company's marine products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on demand for marine retail products as they increase the cost of boat ownership, and may have a negative impact on operating margins, particularly in the Fitness segment, as transportation costs increase. Finally, because heating and air conditioning comprise a significant part of the cost of operating a bowling center, any increase in the price of energy could adversely affect the operating margins of the Company's bowling centers. The Company's profitability may suffer as a result of competitive pricing and other pressures. The introduction of lower-priced alternative products by other companies can hurt the Company's competitive position in all of its businesses. The Company is constantly subject to competitive pressures, particularly in the outboard engine market, in which predominantly Asian manufacturers often have pursued a strategy of aggressive pricing particularly during periods when the Japanese yen weakens versus the U.S. dollar. Such pricing pressure may limit the Company's ability to increase prices for its products in response to raw material and other cost increases and negatively affect the Company's profit margins. In addition, the Company's independent boat builder customers may react negatively to potential competition for their products from Brunswick's own boat brands, which can lead them to purchase marine engines and marine engine supplies from competing marine engine manufacturers and may negatively affect demand for the Company's products. The Company's ability to remain competitive depends on the successful introduction of new product offerings and the ability to meet its customers' expectations. The Company believes that its customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality along with new product innovation and development capability. The Company's ability to remain competitive may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products, gain market acceptance of new products, generate sufficient capital to fund new product development or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, the timing of market entry and pricing of new products are critical. As a result, the Company may not be able to introduce new products necessary to remain competitive in all markets that it serves. Furthermore, the Company must deliver quality products that meet or exceed its customers' expectations regarding product quality and after-sales service. The Company competes with a variety of other activities for consumers' scarce discretionary income and leisure time. The vast majority of the Company's products are used for recreational purposes, and demand for the Company's products can be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers' time, including other forms of recreation as well as religious, cultural and community activities. Additionally, the decrease in consumers' discretionary income as a result of the recent economic environment has influenced consumers' willingness to purchase and enjoy the Company's products. The Company manufactures and sells products that create exposure to potential product liability, warranty liability, personal injury and property damage claims and litigation. The Company's products may expose it to potential product liability, warranty liability, personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of those products. The Company's manufacturing consolidation efforts and production of new products could result in product quality issues, thereby increasing the risk of litigation and potential liability. To address this risk, the Company has established a global, enterprise-wide organization charged with the responsibility of reviewing and addressing product quality issues. Historically, the resolution of such claims has not materially adversely affected the Company's business, and the Company maintains insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of these risks, which it believes to be adequate. However, the Company may experience material losses in the future, incur significant costs to defend claims or experience claims in excess of its insurance coverage or claims that will not be covered by insurance. Furthermore, the Company's reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about its products. The Company records reserves for known potential liabilities, but there is the possibility that actual losses may exceed these reserves and therefore negatively impact earnings. 13Environmental laws and zoning and other requirements can inhibit the Company's ability to grow its marine businesses. Environmental restrictions, boat plant emission restrictions and permitting and zoning requirements can limit access to water for boating, as well as marina and storage space. In addition, certain jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States require or are considering requiring a license to operate a recreational boat. While such licensing requirements are not expected to be unduly restrictive, they may deter potential customers, thereby reducing the Company's sales. Furthermore, regulations allowing the sale of fuel containing higher levels of ethanol for automobiles, which is not approved or intended for use in marine engines, may nonetheless result in increased warranty, service and other claims against the Company if boaters mistakenly use this fuel in marine engines, causing damage to and the degradation of components in their marine engines. Compliance with environmental regulations affecting marine engines will increase costs and may reduce demand for the Company's products. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's emission regulations require certain gasoline sterndrive and inboard engines to be equipped with a catalyst exhaust monitoring and treatment system. It is possible that environmental regulatory bodies may impose higher emissions standards in the future for marine engines. Compliance with these standards would increase the cost to manufacture and the price to the customer for the Company's engines, which could in turn reduce consumer demand for the Company's marine products and potentially reduce operating margins. An increase in the cost of marine engines, an increase in the retail price to consumers or unforeseen delays in compliance with environmental regulations affecting these products could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.The Company's businesses may be adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under various laws and regulations. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including product safety, environmental, health and safety laws and other regulations. While the Company believes that it maintains all requisite licenses and permits and that it is in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, a failure to satisfy these and other regulatory requirements could cause the Company to incur fines or penalties, and compliance could increase its cost of operations. The adoption of additional laws, rules and regulations could also increase the Company's capital or operating costs. The Company's manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Accordingly, the Company is subject to regulations regarding these substances, and the misuse or mishandling of such substances could expose it to liabilities, including claims for property or natural resources damages or personal injury, or fines. The Company is also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of the Company's current or former properties or another location where it has disposed of hazardous materials, the Company may be held liable for the contamination, regardless of knowledge or whether it was at fault in connection with the release, and the amount of such liability could be material. Additionally, the Company is subject to laws governing its relationship with its employees, including, but not limited to, employee wage, hour and benefit issues, such as pension funding and health care benefits. Changes to such legislation could increase the cost of the Company's operations. Specifically, the effects of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, once ultimately determined and implemented, may have an adverse effect on the financial operations of the Company, primarily in the bowling retail business.Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws or enforcement could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial results.Changes in domestic and international tax legislation could expose the Company to additional tax liability. Although the Company carefully monitors changes in tax laws and works to mitigate the impact of proposed changes, such changes may negatively impact the Company's financial results. In addition, any increase in individual income tax rates, such as those implemented at the beginning of 2013, would negatively affect the Company's potential customers' discretionary income and could decrease the demand for its products. Finally, governments in certain foreign jurisdictions are increasing their audit activity in an effort to obtain additional funds. This increased audit activity involves increased costs to the Company to determine the final outcome and the potential for additional taxes to be assessed.14If the Company's intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use its technologies and thereby reduce the Company's ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company regards much of the technology underlying its products as proprietary. The steps the Company takes to protect its proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of the Company's technology, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws; employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements; and other contracts to establish and protect its technology and other intellectual property rights. The agreements may be breached or terminated, the Company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and existing patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws afford it limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of the Company's intellectual property is difficult, particularly in many regions outside the United States. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use the Company's products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for the Company to defend against claims of infringement or to protect its intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost. Further, the Company might not prevail in such litigation, which could harm its business. Some of the Company's operations are conducted by joint ventures that are not operated solely for its benefit. Some of the Company's operations are carried on through jointly owned companies such as BAC and Tohatsu Marine Corporation. With respect to these joint ventures, the Company shares ownership and management responsibility of these companies with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as the Company. These joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for the Company's exclusive benefit. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect the Company's results. The Company derives a portion of its revenues from outside the United States (38 percent in 2012). The Company manufactures its products primarily in the United States and the costs of the Company's products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, although the increase in manufacturing and sourcing of products and materials outside the United States continues to be a strategic focus. The Company sells a significant portion of these products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a strong U.S. dollar can make the Company's products less price-competitive relative to products manufactured outside the United States, and can adversely affect its financial performance. Although the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to reduce its risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, it is impossible to hedge against all currency risk, especially over the long term, and changes in the relative values of currencies may occur from time to time and, in some instances, affect the Company's results of operations. The Company is also exposed to the risk that its counterparties to hedging contracts could default on their obligations, which may have an adverse effect on the Company. A growing portion of the Company's revenue may be derived from international sources, which exposes it to additional uncertainty. Approximately 38 percent of the Company's 2012 sales were derived from sources outside the United States and the Company intends to continue to expand its international operations and customer base as part of its growth strategy. Sales outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, are subject to various risks including government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions, tariffs, fuel duties, inflation, difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, compliance with international laws, treaties and regulations and unexpected changes in regulatory environments, disruptions in distribution, dependence on foreign personnel and unions, as well as economic and social instability. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash from non-U.S. subsidiaries. If the Company continues to expand its business globally, its success will depend, in part, on the Company's ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. These and other factors may have a material impact on the Company's international operations or its business as a whole. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, trade names and other long-lived assets could negatively affect the Company's consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as the Company's trade names, are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill and trade names, the Company makes assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require the Company to make certain assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill and trade name recoverability. Goodwill reviews are 15prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units based on the estimated present value of future discounted cash flows. The Company could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill or trade names prior to the annual assessment if it experiences disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of the Company's business or market capitalization declines. The Company also continually evaluates whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of its definite-lived intangible assets, excluding goodwill, and other long-lived assets may warrant revision or whether the remaining balance of such assets may not be recoverable. The Company uses an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flow over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. If the future operating performance of the Company's reporting units is not consistent with the Company's assumptions, the Company could be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Impairment charges could substantially affect the Company's reported earnings in the periods such charges are recorded. In addition, impairment charges could indicate a reduction in business value which could limit the Company's ability to obtain adequate financing in the future. As of December 31, 2012, goodwill was approximately 12 percent of total assets and included $270.6 million of goodwill related to the Life Fitness segment and $21.1 million of goodwill related to the Marine Engine segment. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative effect on marine and retail bowling center revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant effect on the Company's operating and financial results, especially in the marine and retail bowling center businesses. Sales of the Company's marine products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of the Company's distribution channel. In addition, severely inclement weather on weekends and holidays, particularly during the winter months, can adversely affect patronage of the Company's bowling centers and, therefore, revenues in the retail bowling center business. Additionally, in the event that climate change occurs, which could result in environmental changes including, but not limited to, severe weather, rising sea levels or reduced access to water, the Company's business could be disrupted and negatively affected. Instability in locations where the Company maintains a significant presence could adversely impact the Company's business operations. The Company has established a global presence, with manufacturing, sales, distribution and retail locations around the world. Changing conditions in those locations, including, but not limited to, political instability, civil unrest and an increase in criminal activity, could have a negative impact on the Company's local manufacturing and other business operations. Decreased stability in those regions where the Company conducts business poses a risk of business interruption and delays in shipments of materials, components and finished goods, as well as a risk of decreased local retail demand for the Company's products in those regions. Catastrophic events, including natural and environmental disasters, could have a negative effect on the Company's operations and financial results. The occurrence of natural and environmental disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and environmental spills, could decrease consumer demand for and sales of the Company's products. If such an occurrence takes place in one of Brunswick's major sales markets, the Company could experience a decrease in sales. Additionally, if such an event occurs near the Company's business, manufacturing facilities or key suppliers' facilities, the affected locations could experience an interruption in business operations and/or their operating systems. The Company's operations are dependent upon the services of key individuals, the loss of whom may have an adverse effect. The Company's operations depend, in part, on the efforts of the Company's executive officers and other key employees. In addition, the Company's future success will depend on, among other factors, its ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company's key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company's restructuring activities, which have resulted in substantial employee terminations, may make it more difficult for the Company to attract or retain employees and it may be adversely affected for some time by the loss of trained employees with knowledge of the Company's business and industries. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified individuals, or the Company's costs to do so increase significantly, the Company's operations could be adversely affected. 16The Company's business operations could be negatively impacted by the failure of its information technology systems. The Company's global business operations are managed through a variety of information technology (IT) systems. These systems govern all aspects of the company's operations around the world. The Company is dependent on these systems for all commercial transactions, customer interactions, and image projection. Some of the systems are based on legacy technology and operate with a minimal level of available support. If one of these legacy systems or another of the Company's key IT systems were to suffer a failure, or if the Company's IT systems were unable to communicate effectively, this could result in missed or delayed sales, or lost opportunities for cost reduction or efficient cash management. The Company exchanges information with hundreds of trading partners across all aspects of it's commercial operations. Any breach in security or disruption of the communications could result in erroneous transactions or loss of reputation and confidence. The company has numerous portals to engage in e-commerce and e-marketing; therefore, the company must remain diligent in protecting itself from malicious cyber attacks. A successful cyber attack could result in a disruption of services, fraudulent transactions, or disclosure of confidential information. This could negatively affect the Company's relationships with its trading partners and damage its image and reputation.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.