ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements.” Our concentration in multifamily loans and commercial real estate loans could expose us to increased lending risks and related loan losses. Our current business strategy is to continue to emphasize multifamily loans and to a lesser extent commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2012, $925.6 million, or 74.6% of our originated total loan portfolio held-for-investment, consisted of multifamily and commercial real estate loans. In addition, in October 2011, we acquired $41.9 million of commercial real estate purchased-credit impaired loans with an estimated fair value of $33.4 million at the acquisition date. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the properties and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many 36 Table of Contents of our borrowers have more than one of these types of loans outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential real estate loan. In addition, if loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is unseasoned. It is difficult to judge the future performance of unseasoned loans. Our net loan portfolio has grown to $1.22 billion at December 31, 2012, from $581.2 million at December 31, 2008. A large portion of this increase is due to increases in multifamily real estate loans. It is difficult to assess the future performance of these recently originated loans because our relatively limited experience in multifamily lending does not provide us with a significant payment history from which to judge future collectability, especially in the current weak economic environment. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, as well as the experience of other similarly situated institutions, and we evaluate other factors including, among other things, current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if delinquencies do not continue to improve or non-accrual and non-performing loans increase, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and, based on information available to them at the time of their review, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. An increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because most of our borrowers are located in the New York metropolitan area, a prolonged downturn in the local economy, or a decline in local real estate values, could cause an increase in nonperforming loans or a decrease in loan demand, which would reduce our profits. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas. Continued weakness in our local economy and our local real estate markets could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies, natural disasters, and the threat of terrorist attacks. Continued weakness in economic conditions also could result in reduced loan demand and a decline in loan originations. In particular, a significant decline in real estate values would likely lead to a decrease in new multifamily, commercial real estate, and home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. 37 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide, all of which benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. We have been negatively affected by current market and economic conditions. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. The severe economic recession of 2008 and 2009 and the weak economic recovery since then have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and the expectation of weak general economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The credit quality of loan and investment securities portfolios has deteriorated at many financial institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Some of our commercial and multifamily real estate loan customers have experienced increases in vacancy rates and declines in rental rates for both multifamily and commercial properties. Financial companies’ stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could result in reduced loan demand and further increases in loan delinquencies, loan losses, loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, and otherwise negatively affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. There are potential higher risks stemming from the loans we acquired in our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-assisted transaction. The credit risk associated with the loans and other real estate owned we acquired in our FDIC-assisted acquisition of First State Bank in October 2011 were substantially mitigated by the discount we received from the FDIC; however, these assets are not without risk of loss. Although these acquired assets were initially accounted for at fair value, which reflects an estimate of expected credit losses related to these assets, we did not purchase the assets with loss share from the FDIC. To the extent future cash flows are less than those estimated at time of acquisition, we will recognize impairment losses on the underlying loan pools. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions and other factors may increase the level of charge-offs on the loans we acquired in this transaction and correspondingly reduce our net income. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly, we would likely have to increase the rates we pay on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than any changes in interest rates earned on our loans and investments, resulting in a negative effect on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the effect of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected if competitive pressures keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, while the yields on our assets decrease more rapidly through loan prepayments and interest rate adjustments. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in 38 Table of Contents increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Increases in interest rates may also decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Additionally, increases in interest rates may increase capitalization rates utilized in value incoming producing properties which results in lower appraised values limiting the ability of potential borrowers to refinance existing debt and may result in higher charge-offs of our non-performing collateral dependent loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of our securities portfolio (excluding Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock) totaled $1.28 billion. At December 31, 2012, our simulation model indicated that our net portfolio value (the net present value of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities) would decrease by 2.35% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The Federal Reserve Board has recently maintained interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and purchases of mortgage-backed securities. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates through late 2014. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which is part of the Federal Home Loan Bank system. The Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock is held to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York’s advance programs. The aggregate cost of our Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock as of December 31, 2012, was $12.6 million based on its par value. There is no market for Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock. Although the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is not reporting current operating difficulties, it is possible that the capital of the Federal Home Loan Bank system, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, could be substantially diminished. This could occur with respect to an individual Federal Home Loan Bank due to the requirement that each Federal Home Loan Bank is jointly and severally liable along with the other Federal Home Loan Banks for the consolidated obligations issued through the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Federal Home Loan Banks, or due to the merger of a Federal Home Loan Bank experiencing operating difficulties into a stronger Federal Home Loan Bank. Consequently, there continues to be a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the impairment charge. 39 Table of Contents The expiration of unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our costs and reduce our liquidity levels. On December 31, 2012, unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts expired. Unlimited insurance coverage does not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. The reduction in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on other types of accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum amount may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. This may reduce our liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to maintain our liquidity by retaining deposits. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies are essential to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could also be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. The need to account for certain assets at estimated fair value may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including securities, at estimated fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Elevated delinquencies, defaults, and estimated losses from the disposition of collateral in our private-label mortgage-backed securities portfolio may require us to recognize additional other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to our securities portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in the estimated fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of goodwill will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. 40 Table of Contents Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. We are required to maintain a significant percentage of our total assets in residential mortgage loans and investments secured by residential mortgage loans, which restricts our ability to diversify our loan portfolio. A federal savings bank differs from a commercial bank in that it is required to maintain at least 65% of its total assets in “qualified thrift investments” which generally include loans and investments for the purchase, refinance, construction, improvement, or repair of residential real estate, as well as home equity loans, education loans and small business loans. To maintain our federal savings bank charter we have to be a “qualified thrift lender” or “QTL” in nine out of each 12 immediately preceding months. The QTL requirement limits the extent to which we can grow our commercial loan portfolio, and failing the QTL test can result in an enforcement action. However, a loan that does not exceed $2 million (including a group of loans to one borrower) that is for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes is included in our qualified thrift investments. As of December 31, 2012, we maintained 84.7% of our portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments. Because of the QTL requirement, we may be limited in our ability to change our asset mix and increase the yield on our earning assets by growing our commercial loan portfolio. In addition, if we continue to grow our commercial real estate loan portfolio and our residential mortgage loan portfolio decreases, it is possible that in order to maintain our QTL status, we could be forced to buy mortgage-backed securities or other qualifying assets at times when the terms of such investments may not be attractive. Alternatively, we may find it necessary to pursue different structures, including converting Northfield Bank’s savings bank charter to a commercial bank charter. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. 41 Table of Contents The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities, and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement actions and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets, the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes and the timing and amounts of assessments and fees. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, Community Reinvestment Act laws and regulations, and fair lending laws and regulations. Government agencies have the authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on institutions that fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could significantly affect our business activities, including our ability to acquire other financial institutions or expand our branch network. Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. Federal, state and local laws and policies could reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Restrictions on Northfield Bank’s rights as creditor could result in increased credit losses on our loans and mortgage-backed securities, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Changes in the structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”) and the relationship among the GSEs, the federal government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our securities portfolio. The GSEs are currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs’ business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. GSE reform, if enacted, could result in a significant change and adversely impact our business operations. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, tightened capital standards, and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 42 Table of Contents Among other things, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act: • the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary federal regulator for federal savings associations such as Northfield Bank (replacing the Office of Thrift Supervision), and the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including Northfield-Federal and Northfield Bancorp, MHC; • effective July 21, 2011, the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits has been eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change could have an adverse effect on our interest expense; • the Federal Reserve Board is required to set minimum capital levels for depository institution holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital are required to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. There is a five-year transition period (from the July 21, 2010 effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act) before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies; • the federal banking regulators are required to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives; • a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Northfield Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators; and • federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks have been weakened, and state attorneys general have the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. In addition to the risks noted above, we expect that our operating and compliance costs, and possibly our interest expense, could increase as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations. The need to comply with additional rules and regulations, as well as state laws and regulations to which we were not previously subject, will also divert management’s time from managing the remainder of our operations. Higher capital levels could require us to maintain higher levels of assets that earn less interest and dividend income. The value of our deferred tax asset could be reduced if corporate tax rates in the U.S. are decreased. There have been recent discussions in Congress and by the executive branch regarding potentially decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. While we may benefit in some respects from any decreases in these corporate tax rates, any reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate would result in a decrease to the value of our net deferred tax asset, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our business strategy includes growth plans. Our prospects must be considered carefully in light of risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth strategies. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets, and any such expansion, including the costs associated with de novo branching or acquisitions, may adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to effectively grow could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition, or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. In addition, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks, among others. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have resulted in a heightened level of risk for us. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. In October 2011, Northfield Bank assumed all of the deposits and acquired substantially all of the assets of First State Bank, a New Jersey chartered bank, from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver for First State Bank. In addition, on November 2, 2012, we acquired Flatbush Federal Bancorp, Inc. and Flatbush Federal Savings & Loan Association. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We seek acquisition partners that offer us either significant market presence or the potential to expand our market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse impact on our financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Northfield Bank’s charter, Delaware law, shares of restricted stock and stock options that we have granted or may grant to employees and directors, stock ownership by our management and directors and employment agreements that we have entered into with our executive officers, and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Northfield-Delaware without the consent of our board of directors. We may not pay dividends on our shares of common stock, and we may not receive regulatory approval to pay a special dividend following the completion of the conversion. Although we resumed the payment of dividends in February 2013, stockholders are not entitled to receive dividends. Furthermore, the payment of a one-time, special dividend is subject to regulatory approval. We may not receive such regulatory approval, either promptly or at all, or we may only receive regulatory approval to pay a smaller special dividend than we currently intend. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 44 Table of Contents 