ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Business Our portfolio of loans with a higher risk of loss have increased recently and may increase further as a result of our continued origination of commercial loans. Recently, we have emphasized and grown our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business lending. At December 31, 2011, $197.7 million, or 41.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business loans, increases of 1.4% from $195.0 million at December 31, 2010 and 17.3% from $166.3 million at December 31, 2009. Multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business loans have a higher risk of default and loss than owner-occupied single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrower. Such loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers than single-family residential loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Our non-performing assets have increased significantly and expose us to increased risk of loss, which may negatively affect our earnings. Our non-performing assets have increased recently as a result of the recent economic recession. At December 31, 2011, we had total non-performing assets of $26.3 million, or 4.6% of total assets, an $8.0 million increase from December 31, 2010 and a $20.2 million increase from December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or investments or on real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of Naugatuck Valley Savings and Loan. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $8.3 million, or 1.7% of total loans outstanding and 32.6% of nonperforming loans. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was recently downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. 19 Our strategy of controlling commercial loan growth may have a negative effect on our earnings. At December 31, 2011, our construction loan portfolio, commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolio, and commercial business loan portfolio amounted to 41.4%, 218.8% and 50.1%, respectively, of our total risked-based capital at that date. These percentages are within the limits of the loan concentration policy that we have established for these types of higher risk loans. See “Item 1. Business – Lending Activities – General” for further information regarding the policy limits. We intend to maintain our construction loan, commercial real estate and multi-family loan, and commercial business loan portfolios, as a percentage of total risked-based capital, at approximately the same percentage levels as at December 31, 2011. Our regulators may instruct or advise us to reduce these concentration levels even further if they deem it warranted. Commercial loans generally have higher yields than residential mortgage loans because they are considered to have a higher risk of loss. Our controlled growth strategy, or any change in strategy that makes it more stringent, may have a negative effect on our earnings. The unseasoned nature of our commercial and construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased lending risks. Our multi-family and commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loan portfolio has increased $138.7 million, or 154.9%, from $89.5 million at December 31, 2006 to $228.2 million at December 31, 2011. Many of our multi-family, commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could negatively affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial or construction loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which may negatively impact our earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.7% of total loans outstanding and 32.6% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. 20 Our emphasis on residential mortgage and commercial real estate loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2011, $217.9 million, or 45.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, $32.2 million, or 6.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and $160.9 million, or 33.5% of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family and commercial real estate. We originate home equity lines of credit with maximum combined loan-to-value ratios of up to 75%. Recent declines in the housing market and the commercial real estate market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market area. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage, home equity and multi-family and commercial real estate loans to be inadequately collateralized which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Connecticut, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market, particularly our local greater Naugatuck Valley market area. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in Connecticut have a significant impact on the ability of our borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Income from secondary mortgage market operations is volatile, and we may incur losses or charges with respect to our secondary mortgage market operations which would negatively effect our earnings. We generally sell in the secondary market the fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning non-interest income in the form of gains on sale. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. When interest rates fall, the demand for fixed-rate mortgage loans also tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Although we sell loans in the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers can require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase. Because we generally retain the servicing rights on the loans we sell in the secondary market, we are required to record a mortgage servicing right asset, which we test quarterly for impairment. The value of mortgage servicing rights tend to increase with rising interest rates and to decrease with falling interest rates. If we are required to take an impairment charge, that would hurt our earnings. Naugatuck Valley Savings is required to comply with the terms of the formal written agreement entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or additional regulatory actions. Naugatuck Valley Savings entered into a formal written agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on January 17, 2012. See “Business - General - Formal Regulatory Agreements” for further information. The formal written agreement and each of its provisions will remain in effect unless and until the provisions are amended in writing by mutual consent of Naugatuck Valley Savings and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or excepted, waived, or terminated in writing by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. If we fail to comply with the formal written agreement, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency may pursue the assessment of civil money penalties against Naugatuck Valley Savings and its officers and directors and may seek to enforce the terms of the formal written agreement through court proceedings. 21 Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which previously regulated Naugatuck Valley Savings, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which until then only regulated national banks. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, savings and loan holding companies, including Naugatuck Valley Financial, are now regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws previously accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced, and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as Naugatuck Valley Savings, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in Naugatuck Valley Savings that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” —or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 22 If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. Companies are required to record other-than-temporary impairment if they have the intent to sell, or will more likely than not be required to sell, an impaired debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In addition, companies are required to record other-than-temporary impairment for the amount of credit losses, regardless of the intent or requirement to sell. We evaluate investments that have a fair value less than book value for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. Changes in the expected cash flows, credit enhancement levels or credit ratings of investment securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other-than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the value of these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $247,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held less than 2.0% of the deposits in each of the counties in which our offices are located. Several of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Naugatuck Valley Savings rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 23 