Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factor Relating to Capital Markets Difficult conditions in the credit and equity markets have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the growth of our business, our financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in 2007, the United States’ capital markets experienced extensive distress and dislocation due to the global economic downturn and credit crisis. As a result of this dislocation in the capital markets, our borrowing costs increased dramatically in our premium finance business, and we were unable to access traditional sources of 17 Table of Contents capital to finance the acquisition and sale of structured settlements. At certain points, we were unable to obtain any debt financing. Furthermore, such market conditions forced us to obtain lender protection insurance for our premium finance loans. The cost of this insurance, together with our credit facility interest rate costs, has resulted in total average financing costs of approximately 27.0% per annum of the principal balance of the loans as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to increase transaction volume in each of our businesses, while successfully managing our growth, and on our ability to access sufficient capital or enter into financing arrangements on favorable terms. With the net proceeds from our recently completed initial public offering, we expect to rely on equity financing and our existing debt financing arrangements to fund our business going forward. However, should additional financing be needed in the future, continued or future dislocations in the capital markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing. In addition, the future availability of lender protection insurance may affect our ability to obtain debt financing for our premium finance business should additional debt financing be needed. Our provider of lender protection insurance ceased providing us with lender protection insurance on December 31, 2010. This decision by our provider of lender protection insurance only addresses future loans and does not impact our existing premium finance loans. Lender protection insurance on our existing loans will continue for the life of such loans. If we are unable to access sufficient capital or enter into financing arrangements on favorable terms in the future, the growth of our business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to Premium Finance Transactions Uncertainty in valuing the life insurance policies collateralizing our premium finance loans can affect the fair value of the collateral and if the fair value of the collateral decreases, we will incur losses if the fair value of the collateral is less than the carrying value of the loan. We evaluate all of our premium finance loans for impairment, on a monthly basis, based on the fair value of the underlying life insurance policies, as the collectability is primarily dependent on the fair value of the policy serving as collateral. For loans without lender protection insurance, the fair value of the policy is determined using our valuation model, which is a Level 3 fair value measurement. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value Measurement Guidance.” For loans with lender protection insurance, the insured value is also considered when determining the fair value of the life insurance policy. The lender protection insurer limits the amount of coverage to an amount equal to or less than its determination of the value of the life insurance policy underlying our premium finance loan based on the lender protection insurer’s own models and assumptions. For all loans, the amount of impairment, if any, is calculated as the difference in the fair value of the life insurance policy and the carrying value of the loan. As used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to “carrying value of the loan” refer to the loan principal balance, accrued interest and accreted origination fees excluding any impairment valuation adjustment. A loan impairment valuation is established as losses on our loans are estimated and charged to the provision for losses on loans receivable, and the provision is charged to earnings. Once established, the loan impairment valuation cannot be reversed to earnings. In the ordinary course of business, a large portion of our borrowers may default by not paying off the loan and relinquish beneficial ownership of the life insurance policy to us in exchange for our release of the underlying loan. When this occurs, we record the investment in the policy at fair value. At the end of each reporting period, we re-value the life insurance policies we own. If the calculation results in an adjustment to the fair value of the policy, we record this as a change in fair value of our investment in life insurance policies. This evaluation of the fair value of life insurance policies is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. Using our valuation model, we determine the fair value of life insurance policies using a discounted cash flow basis, incorporating current life expectancy assumptions. The discount rate incorporates current information about market interest rates, the credit exposure to the insurance company that issued the life insurance policy and our estimate of the risk margin an investor in the policy would require. To determine the life expectancy of an insured, we utilize medical reviews from third-party medical underwriters. The health of the insured is summarized by the medical underwriters into a life assessment which is based on the review of historical and current medical records. The medical underwriter assesses the characteristics and health risks of the insured in order to quantify the health into a mortality rating that represents 18 Table of Contents their life expectancy. The probability of mortality for an insured is then calculated by applying the life expectancy estimate to an actuarial table. Insurable interest concerns regarding a life insurance policy can also adversely impact its fair value. A claim or the perceived potential for a claim for rescission by an insurance company or by persons with an insurable interest in the insured of a portion of or all of the policy death benefit can negatively impact the fair value of a life insurance policy. If the calculation of fair value results in a decrease in value, we record this reduction as a loss. As and when loan impairment valuations are established due to the decline in the fair value of the policies collateralizing our loans, our net income will be reduced by the amount of such impairment valuations in the period in which the valuations are established, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our success in operating our premium finance business will be dependent upon using equity financing rather than debt financing and lender protection insurance, and making accurate assumptions about life expectancies so that we may maintain adequate cash balances to pay premiums. With the net proceeds of our recently completed initial public offering, we will fund our new premium finance business with equity financing instead of relying on debt financing and lender protection insurance. Without lender protection insurance on our loans, we have the option to retain a number of life insurance policies that we expect borrowers will relinquish to us in the event of default, instead of taking the direction of our lender protection insurer with respect to the disposition of such life insurance policies. If we retain a life insurance policy, we will be responsible for paying all premiums necessary to keep the policy in force. Therefore, our cash flows and the required amount of our cash reserves to pay premiums will become dependent on our assumptions about life expectancies being accurate. By using cash reserves to pay premiums for retained life insurance policies, we will have less cash available for making new premium finance loans as well as less cash available for other business purposes. Adverse changes in fair value of retained life insurance policies will negatively impact our financial statements. Life expectancies are estimates of the expected longevity or mortality of an insured and are inherently uncertain. A life expectancy obtained on an insured for a life insurance policy may not be predictive of the future longevity or mortality of the insured. Inaccurate forecasting of an insured’s life expectancy could result from, among other things: (i) advances in medical treatment (e.g., new cancer treatments) resulting in deaths occurring later than forecasted; (ii) inaccurate diagnosis or prognosis; (iii) changes to life style habits or the individual’s ability to fight disease, resulting in improved health; (iv) reliance on outdated or incomplete age or health information about the insured, or on information that is inaccurate (whether or not due to fraud or misrepresentation by the insured); or (v) improper or flawed methodology or assumptions in terms of modeling or crediting of medical conditions. In forecasting estimated life expectancies, we utilize third party medical underwriters to evaluate the medical condition and life expectancy of each insured. The firms that provide health assessments and life expectancy information may depend on, among other things, actuarial tables and model inputs for insureds and third-party information from independent physicians who, in turn, may not have personally performed a physical examination of any of the insureds and may have relied solely on reports provided to them by attending physicians with whom they were authorized to communicate. The accuracy of this information has not been and will not be independently verified by us or our service providers. If these life expectancy valuations underestimate the longevity of the insureds, the actual maturity date of the life insurance policies may therefore be longer than projected. Consequently, we may not have sufficient reserves for payment of insurance premiums and we may allow the policies to lapse, resulting in a loss of our investment in those policies, or if we continue to fund premium payments, the time period within which we could expect to receive a return of our investment in such life insurance policies may be extended, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 19 Table of Contents The premium finance business is highly regulated; changes in regulation could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. The making, enforcement and collection of premium finance loans is extensively regulated by the laws and regulations of many states and other applicable jurisdictions. These laws and regulations vary widely, but often: • require that premium finance lenders be licensed by the applicable jurisdiction; • require certain disclosure agreements and strictly govern the content thereof; • regulate the amount of late fees and finance charges that may be charged if a borrower is delinquent on its payments; and/or • allow imposition of potentially significant penalties on lenders for violations of such jurisdiction’s applicable insurance premium finance laws. In addition, our premium finance transactions are subject to state usury laws, which limit the interest rate that can be charged. While we attempt to structure these transactions to avoid being deemed in violation of usury laws, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so. Loans found to be at usurious interest rates may be voided, which would mean the loss of our principal and interest. To the extent that more restrictive regulations or more stringent interpretations of existing regulations are adopted in the future, the future costs of compliance with such changes in regulations could be significant and our ability to conduct our business may be materially adversely affected. There is additional regulatory risk with respect to the acquisition of a life insurance policy in the event of a payment default when we are otherwise unable to sell the policy collateralizing our premium finance loan. For example, if a state insurance regulator were to take the position that our premium finance loans or the acquisition of life insurance policies serving as collateral for such loans should be characterized as life settlement transactions subject to applicable regulations, we could be issued a cease and desist order effectively requiring us to suspend premium finance transactions for an indefinite period, and be subject to fines and other penalties. Our success in our premium finance business depends on maintaining relationships within our referral networks. We rely primarily upon agents and brokers to refer potential premium finance customers to us. These relationships are essential to our operations and we must maintain these relationships to be successful. We do not have fixed contractual arrangements with the referring agents and brokers and they are free to do business with our competitors. Our ability to build and maintain relationships with our agents and brokers depends upon the amount of agency fees we charge and the value of the services we provide. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top ten agents and brokers referred to us approximately 31.02% and 50.13%, respectively, of our premium finance business, based upon the loan maturity balances of the loans originated during such period. The loss of any of our top-referring agents and brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a regulator or court decides that trusts that are formed to own many of the life insurance policies that serve as collateral for our premium finance loans do not have an insurable interest in the life of the insured, such determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All states require that the initial purchaser of a new life insurance policy insuring the life of an individual have an insurable interest in such individual’s life at the time of original issuance of the policy. Whether an insurable interest exists in the context of the purchase of a life insurance policy is critical because, in the absence of a valid insurable interest, life insurance policies are unenforceable under most states’ laws. Where a life insurance policy has been issued to a policyholder without an insurable interest in the life of the individual who is insured, the life insurance company may be able to void or rescind the policy, but must repay to the owner of the policy all premium payments, usually without interest. Even if the insurance company cannot void or rescind the policy, however, the insurable interest laws of a number of states provide that persons with an insurable interest on the life of the insured 20 Table of Contents may have the right to recover a portion or all of the death benefit payable under a policy from a person who has no insurable interest on the life of the insured. These claims can generally only be brought if the policy was originally issued to a person without an insurable interest in the life of the insured. However, some states may require that this insurable interest not only exist at the time that a life insurance policy was issued, but also at any later time that the policy is transferred. Generally, there are two forms of insurable interests in the life of an individual, familial and financial. Additionally, an individual is deemed to have an insurable interest in his or her own life. It is also a common practice for an individual, as a grantor or settlor, to form an irrevocable trust to purchase and own a life insurance policy insuring the life of the grantor or settlor, where the beneficiaries of the trust are persons who themselves, by virtue of certain familial relationships with the grantor or settlor, also have an insurable interest in the life of the insured. In the event of a payment default on our premium finance loans when we are otherwise unable to sell the underlying policy, we will acquire life insurance policies owned by trusts (or the beneficial interests in the trust itself) that we believe had an insurable interest in the life of the related insureds. However, a state insurance regulatory authority or a court may determine that the trust or policy owner does not have an insurable interest in the life of the insured. Any such determination could result in our being unable to receive the proceeds of the life insurance policy, which could lead to a total loss of all amounts loaned in the premium finance transaction or a total loss on our investment in life settlements. Any such loss or losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Premium finance loan originations are susceptible to practices which can invalidate the underlying life insurance policy and subject us to material fines or license suspension or revocation. Many states in which we do business have laws which define and prohibit stranger-originated life insurance (“STOLI”) practices, which in general involve the issuance of life insurance policies as part of or in connection with a practice or plan to initiate life insurance policies for the benefit of a third party investor who, at the time of the policy issuance, lacked a valid insurable interest in the life of the insured. Most of these statutes expressly provide that premium finance loans that only advance life insurance premiums and certain permissible expenses are not STOLI practices or transactions. Under these statutes, a premium finance loan, as well as any life insurance policy collateralizing such loan, must meet certain criteria or such policy can be invalidated, or deemed unenforceable, in its entirety. We cannot control whether a state regulator or borrower will assert that any of our loans should be treated as STOLI transactions or that the loans do not meet the criteria required under the statutes. The legality and merit of “investor-initiated” life insurance products have also been questioned by members of the industry, certain life insurance providers and certain regulators. The premium finance industry has been tainted by lawsuits based on allegations of fraud and misconduct. These lawsuits involve allegations of fraud, breaches of fiduciary duty and other misconduct by industry participants. Some of these cases are brought by life insurance companies attacking the original issuance of the policies on insurable interest and fraud grounds. Notwithstanding the litigation in this industry, there is a lack of judicial certainty in the legal standards used to determine the validity of insurable interest supporting a life insurance policy or the existence of STOLI practices. Lawsuits sometimes focus on transfers of equity interests of the policyholder (e.g., beneficial interests of an irrevocable trust holding a policy) that occur very shortly after or contemporaneously with the issuance of the policy or arrangements whereby the premium finance lender, the life insurance agent and the insured agree to transfer the policy to the premium finance lender or another third party shortly after the policy issuance or the “contestability period.” The “contestability period” is a period of time, usually two years, after which the policy cannot be contested by the issuing life insurance company under the terms of the policy other than for the nonpayment of premiums. Some states have adopted exceptions to such limitation for fraud or other similar malfeasance by the policyholder. While our loan underwriting guidelines are designed to lessen the risks of our participation in STOLI or other business that originates life insurance policies not supported by a valid insurable interest, a regulator’s or carrier’s assertion to the contrary and subsequent successful enforcement could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the policies collateralizing our premium finance loans and our ability to originate business going forward. In particular, the closer the origination date of a premium finance loan transaction is to the life insurance policy 21 Table of Contents issuance date, there is increasing risk that a life insurance policy may be subject to contest or rescission on the basis that such policy was issued on the basis of a misrepresentation regarding premium financing, as part of STOLI practices or was not supported by a valid insurable interest. As of December 31, 2010, 11.4%, 57.1%, 82.6%,96.5%, and 99.1%, respectively, of our premium finance loans outstanding were originated within one month, three months, six months, one year and two years, respectively, of the issuance of the underlying life insurance policy. Regulatory, legislative or judicial changes in these areas could materially and adversely affect our ability to participate in the premium finance business and could significantly increase the costs of compliance, resulting in lower revenue or a complete cessation of our premium finance business. In addition, in this arena, regulatory action for statutory or regulatory infractions could involve fines or license suspension or revocation. We may be unable to obtain or maintain the licenses necessary for us to conduct our premium finance business. The life insurance policies that we own or that secure our premium finance loans may be subject to contest, rescission and/or non-cooperation by the issuing life insurance company, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our premium finance loans are secured by the underlying life insurance policy. If the underlying policy is subject to contest or rescission, the fair value of the collateral could be reduced to zero. Life insurance policies may generally be contested or rescinded by the issuing life insurance company within the contestability period and sometimes beyond the contestability period, depending on the grounds for rescission and applicable law. Misrepresentations, fraud, omissions or lack of insurable interest can, in some instances, form the basis of loss of right to payment under a life insurance policy for many years beyond the contestability period. Whether or not there exists a reasonable legal basis for a contest or rescission, it can result in a cloud on the title or collectability of the policy. Contestation can be based upon any material misrepresentation or omission made in the life insurance policy application, even if unintentional. Misleading or incomplete answers by the insured to any questions asked by the insurance carrier regarding the financing of premiums, the policyholder’s net worth or the insured’s health and medical history and condition as well as to any other questions on a life insurance policy application, can lead to claims that a material misrepresentation or omission was made and may give rise to the insurance carrier’s right to void, contest or rescind the policy. Lack of a valid insurable interest of the life insurance policy owner in the insured also may give rise to the insurance carrier’s right to void, contest or rescind the policy. Although we obtain representations and warranties from the insured, policyholders and referring agents, we may not know whether the applicants for any of our policies have made any material misrepresentations or omissions on the policy applications, or whether the policy owner has a valid insurable interest in the insured, and as such, the policies securing our loans are subject to the risk of contestability or rescission. In addition, some insurance carriers have contested policies as STOLI arrangements, specifically citing the existence of certain nonrecourse premium financing arrangements as a basis to challenge the validity of the policies used to collateralize the financing. A policy may be voided or rescinded by the insurance carrier if found to be a STOLI policy where a valid insurable interest did not exist in the insured at policy inception. From time to time, an insurance carrier has challenged the validity of a policy securing one of our premium finance loans, but the impact on our business from these challenges has not been significant to date. Future challenges to the policies that we own or hold as collateral for our premium finance loans may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the insurance company successfully contests or rescinds a policy, the policy will be declared void, and in such event, the insurance company’s liability would be limited to a refund of all the insurance premiums paid for the policy without any accrued interest. While defending an action to contest or rescind a policy, premium payments may have to continue to be made to the life insurance company. Furthermore, a life insurance company may refuse to refund any of the premiums paid and seek to retain them as an offset to damages it claims to have suffered in connection with the issuance of the life insurance policy. Additionally, the issuing insurance company may refuse to cooperate with us by not providing information, processing notices and/or paperwork required to document the transaction. Hence, in the case of a contest or rescission, premiums paid to the carrier (including those paid during the pendency of a contest or rescission action) may not be refunded. If they are not, we may suffer a complete loss with respect to this portion of the loan amount which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Premium financed life insurance policies are susceptible to a higher risk of fraud and misrepresentation in life insurance applications. While fraud and misrepresentation by applicants and potential insureds in completing life insurance applications (especially with respect to the health and medical history and condition of the potential insured as well as the applicant’s net worth) exist generally in the life insurance industry, such risk of fraud and misrepresentation is heightened in connection with life insurance policies for which the premiums are financed through premium finance loans. In particular, there is a significant risk that applicants and potential insureds may not answer truthfully or completely to any questions related to whether the life insurance policy premiums will be financed through a premium finance loan or otherwise, the applicants’ purpose for purchasing the policy or the applicants’ intention regarding the future sale or transfer of the life insurance policy. Such risk may be further increased to the extent life insurance agents communicate to applicants and potential insureds regarding potential premium finance arrangements or transfer of life insurance policies through payment defaults under premium finance loans. In the ordinary course of business, our sales team receives inquiries from life insurance agents and brokers regarding the availability of premium finance loans for their clients. However, any communication between the life insurance agent and the potential policyholder or insured is beyond our control and we may not know whether a life insurance agent discussed with the potential policyholder or the insured the possibility of a premium finance loan by us or the subsequent transfer of the life insurance policy in the event of a payment default under the loan. Consequently, notwithstanding the representations and certifications we obtain from the policyholders, insureds and the life insurance agents, there is a risk that we may finance premiums for policies subject to contest or rescission by the insurance carrier based on fraud or misrepresentation in any information provided to the life insurance company, including the life insurance application. Contractions in the secondary market for life insurance policies could make it more difficult for us to opportunistically sell policies that we have acquired. A potential sale of a life insurance policy owned by us depends significantly on the size of the secondary market for life insurance, which may contract or disappear depending on the impact of potential government regulation, future economic conditions and/or other market variables. The secondary market for life insurance policies incurred a significant slowdown in 2008 through the present. Historically, many investors who invest in life insurance policies are foreign investors who are attracted by potential investment returns from life insurance policies issued by United States life insurers with high ratings and financial strength as well as by the view that such investments are non-correlated assets — meaning changes in the equity or debt markets should not affect returns on such investments. Changes in the value of the United States dollar as well as changes to the ratings of United States life insurers can cause foreign investors to suffer a reduction in the value of their United States dollar denominated investments and reduce their demand for such products. Any of the above factors could result in a further contraction of the secondary market, which could make it more difficult for us to opportunistically sell life insurance policies that we have acquired. Delays in payment and non-payment of life insurance policy proceeds may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of arguments may be made by former beneficiaries (including but not limited to spouses, ex-spouses and descendants of the insured) under a life insurance policy, by the beneficiaries of the trust holding the policy, by the estate or legal heirs of the insured or by the insurance company issuing such policy, to deny or delay payment of proceeds following the death of an insured, including arguments related to lack of mental capacity of the insured, contestability or suicide provisions in a policy. In addition, the insurable interest and life settlement laws of certain states may prevent or delay the liquidation of the life insurance policy serving as collateral for a loan. Furthermore, if the death of an insured cannot be verified and no death certificate can be produced, the related insurance company may not pay the proceeds of the life insurance policy until the passage of a statutory period (usually five to seven years) for the presumption of death without proof. Such delays in payment or non-payment of policy proceeds may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Bankruptcy of the insured, a beneficiary of the trust owning the life insurance policy or the trust itself could prevent a claim under our lender protection insurance policy. In many instances, individuals establish an irrevocable trust to hold and own their life insurance policy for estate planning reasons. In our premium finance business, the majority of the premium finance borrowers are trusts owning life insurance policies. A bankruptcy of the insured, a bankruptcy of a beneficiary of a trust owning the life insurance policy or a bankruptcy of the trust itself could prevent us from acquiring the life insurance policy following an event of default under the related premium finance loan unless consent of the applicable bankruptcy court is obtained or it is determined that the automatic stay generally arising following a bankruptcy filing is not applicable. A failure to promptly obtain any required bankruptcy court consent within one hundred twenty (120) days following the maturity date of the related premium finance loan could delay or prevent us from making a claim under the lender protection insurance policy for any loss sustained following a default under the premium finance loan. Lender protection insurance insures us against certain risks of loss associated with our premium finance loans, including payment default by the borrower. If a premium finance loan is not repaid, the lender protection insurer, subject to the lender protection insurance policy’s terms and conditions, has the right to direct control or take beneficial ownership of the underlying life insurance policy and we are paid a claim equal to the insured value of the life insurance policy. If we are delayed or otherwise prevented from making a claim under the lender protection insurance policy for any loss sustained following a default under the premium finance loan, additional premium payments will need to be made to keep the life insurance policy in force. As a result, we may be forced to expend additional funds, or borrow funds at unfavorable rates if such financing is even available, in order to fund the premiums or, if we are unable to obtain the necessary funds, we may be forced to allow the policy to lapse, resulting in the loss of the premiums we financed in the transaction. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lender protection insurance policies have significant exclusions and limitations. Coverage under our lender protection insurance policies is not comprehensive and each of these policies is subject to significant exclusions, limitations and coverage gaps. In the event that any of the exclusions or limitations to coverage set forth in the lender protection insurance policies are applicable or there is a coverage gap, there will be no coverage for any losses we may suffer, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The coverage exclusions include, but are not limited to: • the lapse of the related life insurance policy due to the failure to pay sufficient premiums during the term of the applicable premium finance loan; • certain losses relating to situations where the life insured has died and there has been a bankruptcy or insolvency of the life insurance company that issued the applicable policy; • any loss caused by our fraudulent, illegal, criminal, malicious or grossly negligent acts; • a surrender of the related life insurance policy to the issuing life insurance carrier or the sale of such policy or the beneficial interest therein, in each case without the prior written consent of the lender protection insurer; • our failure to timely obtain necessary rights, free and clear of any lien or encumbrance, with respect to the applicable life insurance policy as required under the lender protection insurance policy; • our failure to timely submit a properly completed proof of loss certificate to the lender protection insurance policy insurer; • our failure to timely notify the lender protection insurance policy insurer of: • the occurrence of certain prohibited acts, as described in the lender protection insurance policy, or • material non-compliance of the related loan with applicable laws, in each case after obtaining actual knowledge of such events; • our making of a claim under the lender protection insurance policy knowing the same to be fraudulent; or • the related life insurance policy being contested prior to the effective date of the related coverage certificate issued under the lender protection insurance policy and we have actual knowledge of such contest. 24 Table of Contents Failure to perfect a security interest in the underlying life insurance policy or the beneficial interests therein could result in our interest being subordinated to other creditors. Payment by the related premium finance loan borrower of amounts owed pursuant to each loan is secured by the underlying life insurance policy or by the beneficial interests in a trust established to hold the insurance policy. If we fail to perfect a security interest in such policy or beneficial interests, our interest in such policy or beneficial interests may be subordinated to those of other parties, including, in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency, a bankruptcy trustee, receiver or conservator. Some life insurance companies are opposed to the financing of life insurance policies. Some United States life insurance companies and their trade associations have voiced concerns about the life settlement and premium finance industries generally and the transfer of life insurance policies to investors. These life insurance companies may oppose the transfer of a policy to, or honoring of a life insurance policy held by, third parties unrelated to the original insured/owner, especially when they may believe the initial premiums for such life insurance policies might have been financed, directly or indirectly, by investors that lacked an insurable interest in the continuing life of the insured. If the life insurance companies seek to contest or rescind life insurance policies acquired by us based on such aversion to the financing of life insurance policies, we may experience a substantial loss with respect to the related premium finance loans and the underlying life insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These life insurance companies and their trade associations may also seek additional state and federal regulation of the life settlement and premium finance industries. If such additional regulations were adopted, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the life insurance companies that issue the policies serving as collateral for our premium finance loans. If a life insurance company defaults on its obligation to pay death benefits on a policy we own, we would experience a loss of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the life insurance companies that issue the policies serving as collateral for our premium finance loans. We assume the credit risk associated with life insurance policies issued by various life insurance companies. Furthermore, there is a concentration of life insurance companies that issue the policies that serve as collateral for our premium finance loans. Over 60% of our premium finance loans outstanding as of December 31, 2010 are secured by life insurance policies issued by four life insurance companies. The failure or bankruptcy of any such life insurance company or annuity company could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. A life insurance company’s business tends to track general economic and market conditions that are beyond its control, including extended economic recessions or interest rate changes. Changes in investor perceptions regarding the strength of insurers generally and the policies or annuities they offer can adversely affect our ability to sell or finance our assets. Adverse economic factors and volatility in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on a life insurance company’s business and credit rating, financial condition and operating results, and an issuing life insurance company may default on its obligation to pay death benefits on the life insurance policies we acquired following a payment default on our premium finance loans when we are otherwise unable to sell the underlying policy. In such event, we would experience a loss of our investment in such life insurance policies which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a life insurance company is able to increase the premiums due on life insurance policies that we own or finance, it will adversely affect our returns on such life insurance policies. For any life insurance policies that we own or finance, we will be responsible for paying insurance premiums due. If a life insurance company is able to increase the cost of insurance charged for any of the life insurance policies that we own or finance, the amounts required to be paid for insurance premiums due for these life insurance policies may increase, requiring us to incur additional costs for the life insurance policies, which may adversely affect returns on such life insurance policies and consequently reduce the secondary market value of such life insurance policies. Failure to pay premiums on the life insurance policies when due will result in termination or “lapse” of the 25 Table of Contents life insurance policies. The insurer may in a “lapse” situation view reinstatement of a life insurance policy as tantamount to the issuance of a new life insurance policy and may require the current owner to have an insurable interest in the life of the insured as of the date of the reinstatement. In such event, we would experience a loss of our investment in such life insurance policy. Failure to protect our premium finance transaction clients’ confidential information and privacy could adversely affect our business. Our premium finance business is subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. For example, the collection and use of medical data is subject to national and state legislation, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. The actions we take to protect such confidential information include, among other things: • training and educating our employees regarding our obligations relating to confidential information; • actively monitoring our record retention plans and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; • maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and • limiting access to electronic information. However, if we do not properly comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, such as penalties, fines and loss of licenses, as well as loss of reputation and possible litigation. Risk Factors Related to Structured Settlements We are dependent on third parties to purchase our structured settlements. Any inability to sell structured settlements or, in the alternative, to access additional capital to purchase structured settlements, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to purchase our structured settlements. Our ability to grow our business depends upon our ability to sell our structured settlements at favorable discount rates and to establish alternative financing arrangements. Third party purchasers or other financing may not be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all. If such other third party purchasers or other financing are not available, then we may be required to seek additional equity financing, if available, which would dilute the interests of shareholders who purchased common stock in our recently completed offering. We may not be able to continue to sell our structured settlements to third parties at favorable discount rates or obtain financing through borrowings or other means on acceptable terms to satisfy our cash requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Any change in current tax law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of structured settlements is largely the result of the favorable federal income tax treatment of such transactions. In 1979, the Internal Revenue Service issued revenue rulings that the income tax exclusion of personal injury settlements applied to related periodic payments. Thus, claimants receiving installment payments as 26 Table of Contents compensation for a personal injury were exempt from all federal income taxation, provided certain conditions were met. This ruling, and its subsequent codification into federal tax law in 1982, resulted in the proliferation of structured settlements as a means of settling personal injury lawsuits. Changes to tax policies that eliminate this exemption of structured settlements from federal taxation could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. If the tax treatment for structured settlements were changed adversely by a statutory change or a change in interpretation, the dollar volume of structured settlements could be reduced significantly which would also reduce the level of our structured settlement business. In addition, if there were a change in the federal tax code that would result in adverse tax consequences for the assignment or transfer of structured settlements, such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in discount rates or interest rates may decrease our yield on structured settlement transactions. Our profitability is directly affected by levels of and fluctuations in interest rates. Such profitability is largely determined by the difference, or “spread,” between the discount rate at which we purchase the structured settlements and the discount rate at which we can resell these assets or the interest rate at which we can finance those assets. We may not be able to continue to purchase structured settlements at current or historical discount rates. Structured settlements are purchased at effective yields which are fixed, while rates at which structured settlements are sold, with the exception of forward purchase arrangements, are generally a function of the prevailing market rates for short-term borrowings. As a result, decreases in the discount rate at which we purchase structured settlements or increases in prevailing market interest rates after structured settlements are acquired could have a material adverse effect on our yield on structured settlement transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The insolvency of a holder of a structured settlement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to scheduled payments in structured settlement transactions will be adversely affected if any holder of a structured settlement, the special purpose vehicle to which an insurance company assigns its obligations to make payments under the settlement (the “Assumption Party”) or the annuity provider becomes insolvent and/or becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code. If a holder of a structured settlement were to become a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, a court could hold that the scheduled payments transferred by the holder under the applicable settlement purchase agreement would not constitute property of the estate of the claimant under the Bankruptcy Code. If, however, a trustee in bankruptcy or other receiver were to assert a contrary position, such as by requiring us (or any securitization vehicle) to establish our right to those payments under federal bankruptcy law or by persuading courts to recharacterize the transaction as secured loans, such result could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the rights to receive the scheduled payments are deemed to be property of the bankruptcy estate of the claimant, the trustee may be able to avoid assignment of the receivable to us. Furthermore, a general creditor or representative of the creditors (such as a trustee in bankruptcy) of an Assumption Party could make the argument that the payments due from the annuity provider are the property of the estate of such Assumption Party (as the named owner thereof). To the extent that a court would accept this argument, the resulting delays or reductions in payments on our receivables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the identities of structured settlement holders become readily available, it could have an adverse effect on our structured settlement business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe that there are any readily available lists of holders of structured settlements, which makes brand awareness critical to growing market share. We use national television marketing to generate in-bound telephone and internet inquiries and we have built a proprietary database of clients and prospective clients. As of December 31, 2010, we had a database of over 30,000 structured settlement leads. If the identities of structured settlement holders were to become readily available to our competitors or to the general public, we could face 27 Table of Contents increased competition and the value of our proprietary database would be diminished, which would have a negative effect on our structured settlement business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse judicial developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse judicial developments have occasionally occurred in the structured settlement industry, especially with regard to anti-assignment concerns and issues associated with non-disclosure of material facts and associated misconduct. For example, in the 2008 case of 321 Henderson Receivables, LLC v. Tomahawk, the California County Superior Court (Fresno County, Case No. 08CECG00797 — July 2008 Order (unreported)) ruled that (i) certain structured settlement sales were barred by anti-assignment provisions in the settlement documents, (ii) the transfers were loans, not sales, that violated California’s usury laws and (iii) for similar reasons numerous other court-approved structured settlement sales may be void. Although the Tomahawk decision was subsequently reversed by the California Court of Appeal, the Superior Court decision had a negative effect on the structured settlement industry by casting doubt on the ability of a structured settlement recipient to sell portions of the payment streams. Any similar adverse judicial developments calling into doubt such laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our investments in structured settlements. Risk Factors Relating to Our General Business Changes to statutory, licensing and regulatory regimes governing premium financing or structured settlements, including the means by which we conduct such business, could have a material adverse effect on our activities and revenues. Changes to statutory, licensing and regulatory regimes could result in the enforcement of stricter compliance measures or adoption of additional measures on us or on the insurance companies or annuity providers that stand behind the insurance policies that collateralize our premium finance loans and the structured settlements that we purchase, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business activities and revenues. Any change to the regulatory regime covering the resale of any of these asset classes, including any change specifically applicable to our activities or to investor eligibility, could restrict our ability to finance, acquire or sell these assets or could lead to significantly increased compliance costs. Traditionally, the U.S. federal government has not directly regulated the insurance business. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which we refer to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the “Dodd-Frank Act”, provides for the enhanced federal supervision of financial institutions, including insurance companies in certain circumstances, and financial activities that represent a systemic risk to financial stability or the U.S. economy. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Insurance Office will be established within the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry. Notwithstanding the creation of the Federal Insurance Office, the Dodd-Frank Act provides that state insurance regulators will remain the primary regulatory authority over insurance and expressly withholds from the Federal Insurance Office and the U.S. Treasury Department general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance. At this time, we cannot assess whether any other proposed legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank Act or any other legislation or changes could have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, we are subject to various federal and state regulations regarding the solicitation of customers. The Federal Communications Commission and Federal Trade Commission have issued rules that provide for a national “do not call” registry. Under these rules, companies are prohibited from contacting any individual who requests to have his or her phone number added to the registry, except in certain limited instances. We are required to continually review the national “do not call” registry to ensure that we do not contact anyone on that registry. In February 2009, we received a citation for violating these rules. In the event we violate these rules in the future, we could be subject to a fine of up to $16,000 per violation or each day of a continuing violation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Regulation of life settlement transactions as securities under the federal securities laws could lead to increased compliance costs and could adversely affect our ability to acquire or sell life insurance policies. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, recently issued a report recommending that sales of life insurance policies in life settlement transactions be regulated as securities for purposes of the federal securities laws. Although as of December 31, 2010, we have never purchased a policy directly from a policy owner, any legislation implementing such regulatory change or a change in the transactions that are characterized as life settlement transactions could lead to increased compliance costs and adversely affect our ability to acquire or sell life insurance policies in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative press from media or consumer advocacy groups and as a result of litigation involving industry participants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The premium finance and structured settlement industries periodically receive negative press from the media and consumer advocacy groups and as a result of litigation involving industry participants. A sustained campaign of negative press resulting from media or consumer advocacy groups, industry litigation or other factors could adversely affect the public’s perception of these industries as a whole, and lead to reluctance to sell assets to us or to provide us with third party financing. We also have received negative press from competitors. Any such negative press could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited operating experience. Our business operations began in December 2006. Consequently, while certain of our management are very experienced in the premium finance and structured settlement businesses, we have limited operating history in both of our business segments. With the net proceeds of our recently completed initial public offering, we have the option to retain a number of life insurance policies that we expect borrowers will relinquish to us in the event of default, instead of taking the direction of our lender protection insurer with respect to the disposition of such life insurance policies. However, since our inception, we have had limited experience managing and dealing in life insurance policies owned by us. Therefore, the historical performance of our operations may be of limited relevance in predicting future performance. The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our key executive officers including Antony Mitchell, our chief executive officer, and Jonathan Neuman, our president and chief operating officer. These officers have significant experience operating businesses in structured settlements and premium finance transactions, which are highly regulated industries. In connection with our recently completed initial public offering, we have entered into employment agreements with each of these executive officers. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our executives. Mr. Mitchell is a citizen of the United Kingdom who is working in the United States as a lawful permanent resident on a conditional basis. In order to retain his lawful permanent residency, Mr. Mitchell applied to have the conditions on his permanent resident status removed and pending review of his application, he has been granted an extension of conditional permanent resident status to March 31, 2012. Although Mr. Mitchell has applied to have the conditions on his lawful permanent residency removed, he may not satisfy the requirements to have the conditions removed, or his application to do so may not be approved. The failure to remove the conditions on his permanent residency could result in Mr. Mitchell having to leave the United States or cause him to seek an alternative immigration status in the United States. The loss of Mr. Mitchell or Mr. Neuman or other executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We compete with a number of other finance companies and may encounter additional competition. There are a number of finance companies that compete with us. Many are significantly larger and possess considerably greater financial, marketing, management and other resources than we do. The premium finance business and structured settlement business could also prove attractive to new entrants. As a consequence, competition in these sectors may increase. In addition, existing competitors may increase their market penetration and purchasing activities in one or more of the sectors in which we participate. The availability of the type of insurance policies that meet our actuarial and underwriting standards for our premium finance transactions is limited and sought by many of our competitors. Also, we rely on life insurance agents and brokers to refer premium finance transactions to us, and our competitors may offer better terms and conditions to such life insurance agents and brokers. Increased competition could result in reduced origination volume, reduced discount rates and/or other fees, each of which could materially adversely affect our revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Future sales of our common stock may affect the trading price of our common stock and the future exercise of options may lower the price of our common stock. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate. In connection with our initial public offering, we and our current directors and executive officers, and certain of our shareholders, have entered into 180-day lock-up agreements. An aggregate of 3,600,000 shares of our common stock are subject to these lock-up agreements, plus any shares purchased by such officers, directors, employees and shareholders and their respective affiliates in the directed share program other than shares purchased by Pine Trading, Ltd. and its affiliates. Being a public company will increase our expenses and administrative workload and will expose us to risks relating to evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we must comply with additional laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, and related rules of the SEC and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We were not required to comply with these laws and requirements as a private company. Complying with these laws and regulations will require the time and attention of our board of directors and management and will increase our expenses. Among other things, we will need to: design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; prepare and distribute periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; establish new internal policies, principally those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance; institute a more comprehensive compliance function; and involve to a greater degree our outside legal counsel and accountants in the above activities. In addition, we expect that being a public company may make it more expensive for us to renew our director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to 30 Table of Contents obtain this coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executives and members of our board of directors, particularly directors willing to serve on our audit committee. We are in the process of evaluating our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess, our internal controls over financial reporting. We plan to perform the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements or the trading price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting. A “control deficiency” exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects the ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our independent registered public accounting firm has in the past identified certain deficiencies in our internal controls that it considered to be control deficiencies and material weaknesses. If we fail to remediate these internal control deficiencies and material weaknesses and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. During their audit of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Grant Thornton LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, identified certain deficiencies in our internal controls, including deficiencies that they considered to be significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. Specifically, in their audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness relating to the number of adjustments recorded to reconcile differences and to correct accounts improperly booked relating to the year-end closing and reporting process. In their audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses relating to (i) the incorrect recordation of agency fees, (ii) a reversal of capital contributions entry due to inaccuracies in the timing of the payments and (iii) inaccuracies in the input of maturity dates of loans. Additionally, the audit identified a significant control deficiency with respect to the number of adjusting journal entries as a result of us having a limited accounting staff. In response, we initiated corrective actions to remediate these control deficiencies and material weaknesses. Although no material weaknesses were identified during the audit of our financial statements for the periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. it is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure or difficulties in implementing and maintaining these controls could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors to our financial statements requiring a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our 31 Table of Contents reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Provisions in our executive officers’ employment agreements could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control, which could diminish the price of our common stock. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers as described in the section titled “Executive Compensation — Employment Agreements.” The agreements for our Chief Executive Officer and President provide for substantial payments in the event of a material change in the geographic location where such officers perform their duties or upon a material diminution of their base salaries or responsibilities. For Messrs. Mitchell and Neuman, these payments are equal to three times the sum of base salary and the average of the three years’ annual cash bonus, unless the triggering event occurs during the first three years of their respective employment agreements, in which case the payments are equal to six times base salary. These payments may deter any transaction that would result in a change in control, which could diminish the price of our common stock. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control, which could diminish the price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In particular, shareholders are required to provide us with advance notice of shareholder nominations and proposals to be brought before any annual meeting of shareholders, which could discourage or deter a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to introduce a proposal. In addition, our articles of incorporation eliminate our shareholders’ ability to act without a meeting and require the holders of not less than 50% of the voting power of our common stock to call a special meeting of shareholders. These provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Furthermore, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws provide that the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by our board of directors, provided that the board shall consist of at least three and no more than fifteen members. Certain laws of the State of Florida could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control, which could diminish the price of our common stock. As a Florida corporation, we are subject to the Florida Business Corporation Act, which provides that a person who acquires shares in an “issuing public corporation,” as defined in the statute, in excess of certain specified thresholds generally will not have any voting rights with respect to such shares unless such voting rights are approved by the holders of a majority of the votes of each class of securities entitled to vote separately, excluding shares held or controlled by the acquiring person. The Florida Business Corporation Act also contains a statute which provides that an affiliated transaction with an interested shareholder generally must be approved by (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our voting shares, other than the shares beneficially owned by the interested shareholder, or (ii) a majority of the disinterested directors. Additionally, one of our subsidiaries, Imperial Life Settlements, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is licensed as a viatical settlement provider and is regulated by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. As a Florida viatical settlement provider, Imperial Life Settlements, LLC is subject to regulation as a specialty insurer under certain provisions of the Florida Insurance Code. Under applicable Florida law, no person can finally acquire, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of a viatical settlement provider or its controlling company without the written approval of the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. Accordingly, any person who 32 Table of Contents acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our voting securities will be required by law to notify the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation no later than five days after any form of tender offer or exchange offer is proposed, or no later than five days after the acquisition of securities or ownership interest if no tender offer or exchange offer is involved. Such person will also be required to file with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation an application for approval of the acquisition no later than 30 days after the same date that triggers the 5-day notice requirement. The Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may disapprove the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting securities by any person who refuses to apply for and obtain regulatory approval of such acquisition. In addition, if the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation determines that any person has acquired 10% or more of our voting securities without obtaining its regulatory approval, it may order that person to cease the acquisition and divest itself of any shares of our voting securities which may have been acquired in violation of the applicable Florida law. Due to the requirement to file an application with and obtain approval from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, purchasers of 10% or more of our voting securities may incur additional expenses in connection with preparing, filing and obtaining approval of the application, and the effectiveness of the acquisition will be delayed pending receipt of approval from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. The Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may also take disciplinary action against Imperial Life Settlements, LLC’s license if it finds that an acquisition of our voting securities is made in violation of the applicable Florida law and would render the further transaction of business hazardous to our customers, creditors, shareholders or the public. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 