Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those we believe to be material, but they are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks, or other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that we currently consider not to be material, actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Some of the statements regarding risk factors below and elsewhere in this report may include forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward-looking statements both with respect to us specifically and the insurance and reinsurance sectors in general, both as to underwriting and investment matters. Statements that include words such as “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “project,” “anticipate,” “seek,” “will” and similar statements of a future or forward-looking nature identify forward-looking statements for purposes of the federal securities laws or otherwise. All forward-looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in or additions to such forward-looking statements. Risks Related to our Business If actual claims payments exceed our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the insurance and reinsurance policies that we write. We establish reserves on an undiscounted basis to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the insurance policies that we write. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves are estimates of what we expect to be the ultimate cost of resolution and administration of claims under the insurance policies that we write. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections, our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates and assumptions as to future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial 30 Table of Contents theories of liability and other factors. We continually refine our reserve estimates in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Our insurance subsidiaries obtain an annual statement of opinion from an independent actuarial firm on the reasonableness of these reserves. Establishing an appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process. The following factors may have a substantial impact on our future actual losses and loss adjustment experience: • claim and expense payments; • severity of claims; • legislative and judicial developments; and • changes in economic conditions, including the effect of inflation. For example, as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended exposures related to claims and coverage may emerge. Recent examples include claims relating to mold, asbestos and construction defects, as well as larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers. In addition, there is a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigations relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices. These exposures may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, such developments could cause our level of reserves to be inadequate. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses we incur under insurance policies that we write may be different from the amount of reserves we establish, and to the extent that actual losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed our expectations and the reserves reflected on our financial statements, we will be required to immediately reflect those changes by increasing our reserves. In addition, regulators could require that we increase our reserves if they determine that our reserves were understated in the past. When we increase reserves, our pre-tax income for the period in which we do so will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition to having an effect on reserves and pre-tax income, increasing or “strengthening” reserves causes a reduction in our insurance companies’ surplus and could cause the rating of our insurance company subsidiaries to be downgraded or placed on credit watch. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. Catastrophic events can have a significant impact on our financial and operational condition. Results of operations of property and casualty insurers are subject to man-made and natural catastrophes. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, catastrophe losses. It is possible that a catastrophic event or a series of multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if we experience losses from catastrophes that are in excess of the catastrophe reinsurance coverage of our Insurance Operations. Our Reinsurance Operations also have exposure to losses from catastrophes as a result of the reinsurance treaties that it writes. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if losses and expenses related to the property catastrophe events exceed premiums assumed. Catastrophes include windstorms, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hail, severe winter weather, fires and may include terrorist events such as the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon on September 11, 2001. We cannot predict how severe a particular catastrophe may be until after it occurs. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount and type of losses incurred, the number of insureds affected, the frequency of the events and the severity of the particular catastrophe. Most catastrophes occur in small geographic areas. However, some catastrophes may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. In 2011, we suffered net losses due to an earthquake and tsunami in Japan, an earthquake in New Zealand, Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storm Lee and smaller events in other locations. 31 Table of Contents A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt business, damage our reputation, and cause losses. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable, externally and internally, to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have security consequences. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’, or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports our business in the communities in which we are located, or of outsourced services or functions. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services used by us. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings occupied by us or as a result of events with a broader effect on the cities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy their offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. We are dependent on our senior executives and the loss of any of these executives or our inability to attract and retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are a limited number of available, qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. The success of our initiatives and our future performance depend, in significant part, upon the continued service of our senior management team. The future loss of any of the services of members of our senior management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Resultant losses could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents A decline in rating for any of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our position in the insurance market, make it more difficult to market our insurance products and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. If the rating of any of the companies in our Insurance Operations or Reinsurance Operations is reduced from its current level of “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer, and it could be more difficult for us to market our insurance products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business; as such business could move to other competitors with higher ratings, thus causing premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position for insurance companies. A.M. Best ratings currently range from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation), with a total of 16 separate ratings categories. A.M. Best currently assigns the companies in our Insurance Operations and Reinsurance Operations a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent), the third highest of their 16 rating categories. The objective of A.M. Best’s rating system is to provide potential policyholders an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and its ability to meet ongoing obligations, including paying claims. In evaluating a company’s financial and operating performance, A.M. Best reviews its profitability, leverage and liquidity, its spread of risk, the quality and appropriateness of its reinsurance, the quality and diversification of its assets, the adequacy of its policy and loss reserves, the adequacy of its surplus, its capital structure, and the experience and objectives of its management. These ratings are based on factors relevant to policyholders, general agencies, insurance brokers, reinsurers, and intermediaries and are not directed to the protection of investors. These ratings are not an evaluation of, nor are they directed to, investors in our Class A ordinary shares and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our Class A ordinary shares. Publications of A.M. Best indicate that companies are assigned “A” (Excellent) ratings if, in A.M. Best’s opinion, they have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. These ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and as a result, we could experience losses. We cede a portion of gross premiums written to third party reinsurers under reinsurance contracts. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Upon payment of claims, we will bill our reinsurers for their share of such claims. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance receivables that they owe to us or they may not pay such receivables on a timely basis. If our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our financial results would be adversely affected. Lack of reinsurer liquidity, perceived improper underwriting, or claim handling by us, and other factors could cause a reinsurer not to pay. See “Business—Reinsurance of Underwriting Risk” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. See Note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information surrounding our reinsurance receivable balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which would in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. For 2011, our pre-tax income derived from invested assets was $74.6 million, net of investment expenses, including net realized gains of $21.5 million. Of this amount, $6.6 million were other than temporary impairments. Our operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. The fair value of fixed income investments can fluctuate depending on changes in interest rates and the credit quality of underlying issuers. Generally, the fair market value of these investments has an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates, while net investment income 33 Table of Contents earned by us from future investments in fixed maturities will generally increase or decrease with changes in interest rates. Additionally, with respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. Credit tightening could negatively impact our future investment returns and limit the ability to invest in certain classes of investments. Credit tightening may cause opportunities that are marginally attractive to not be financed, which could cause a decrease in the number of bond issuances. If marginally attractive opportunities are financed, they may be at higher interest rates, which would cause credit risk of such opportunities to increase. If new debt supply is curtailed, it could cause interest rates on securities that are deemed to be credit-worthy to decline. Funds generated by operations, sales, and maturities will need to be invested. If we invest during a tight credit market, our investment returns could be lower than the returns we are currently realizing and/or we may have to invest in higher risk securities. With respect to our longer-term liabilities, we strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for our future liabilities. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our liability for insurance reserves. However, if our liquidity needs or general and specific liability profile unexpectedly changes, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in that manner. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our expected liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse affect on the performance of our investment portfolio. We refer to this risk as liquidity risk, which is when the fair value of an investment is not able to be realized due to low demand by outside parties in the marketplace. We are also subject to credit risk due to non-payment of principal or interest. Current market conditions increase the risk that companies may default on their credit obligations. Several classes of securities that we hold, including our corporate loan securities, have default risk. As interest rates rise for companies that are deemed to be less creditworthy, there is a greater risk that they will be unable to pay contractual interest or principal on their debt obligations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our fixed maturities securities. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high-quality portfolio with a relatively short duration that seeks to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on market value. We also have an equity portfolio that represented approximately 10.2% of our total investments and cash and cash equivalents portfolio plus a net receivable for securities sold of $1.5 million, as of December 31, 2011. The performance of our equity portfolio is dependent upon a number of factors, including many of the same factors that affect the performance of our fixed income investments, although those factors sometimes have the opposite effect on the performance of the equity portfolio. Individual equity securities have unsystematic risk. We could experience market declines on these investments. We also have systematic risk, which is the risk inherent in the general market due to broad macroeconomic factors that affect all companies in the market. If the market indexes were to decline, we anticipate that the value of our portfolio would be negatively affected. We have $195.9 million of investments in corporate loans. Corporate loans are primarily investments in senior secured floating rate loans that banks have made to corporations. The loans are generally priced at an interest rate spread over LIBOR that resets periodically, typically at intervals between one month and one year. As a result, this asset class provides protection against rising interest rates. However, this asset class is subject to default risk since these investments are typically below investment grade. 34 Table of Contents We have $6.6 million of an investment in a limited partnership. Material assumptions and factors utilized in pricing these securities include future cash flows, constant default rates, recovery rates, and any market clearing activity that may have occurred since the prior month-end pricing period. Our limited partnership investment is not liquid. The Company does not have the contractual option to redeem its limited partnership interest but receives distributions based on the liquidation of the underlying assets. The Company does not have the ability to sell or transfer its limited partnership interest without consent from the general partner. Our returns could be negatively affected if the market value of the partnership declines. If we need liquidity, we might be forced to liquidate other investments at a time when prices are not optimal. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.3 million worth of investment exposure to subprime investments and Alt-A investments. Of that amount, approximately $0.3 million were rated BBB- to A and $2.0 million were rated below investment grade. There were no impairments on these investments during 2011. Since we depend on professional general agencies, brokers, other insurance companies and other reinsurance companies for a significant portion of our revenue, a loss of any one of them could adversely affect us. We market and distribute our insurance products through a group of approximately 100 professional general agencies that have specific quoting and binding authority and that in turn sell our insurance products to insureds through retail insurance brokers. We also market and distribute our reinsurance products through third-party brokers, insurance companies and reinsurance companies. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our top five non-affiliated agencies, all of which market more than one specific product, represented 23.1% of our Insurance Operations’ gross premiums written. No one agency accounted for more than 9.6% of our Insurance Operations’ gross premiums written. A loss of all or substantially all of the business produced by any more of these general agencies, brokers, insurance companies or reinsurance companies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall strategy of risk and capacity management, we purchase reinsurance for a portion of the risk underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our third party reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. Historically, the results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • competition; • capital capacity; • rising levels of actual costs that are not foreseen by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • changes in loss reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and 35 Table of Contents • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may affect the ultimate payout of losses. The demand for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. The property and casualty insurance industry historically is cyclical in nature. These fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, reinsurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. Our competitors include, among others: American International Group, Argo Group International Holdings, Ltd., Berkshire Hathaway, Everest Re Group, Ltd., Great American Insurance Group, HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., IFG Companies, Markel Corporation, Nationwide Insurance, Navigators Insurance Group, RLI Corporation, Selective Insurance Group, Inc., The Travelers Companies, Inc., W.R. Berkley Corporation, and Western World Insurance Group. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. Our general agencies typically pay the insurance premiums on business they have bound to us on a monthly basis. This accumulation of balances due to us exposes us to a credit risk. Insurance premiums generally flow from the insured to their retail broker, then into a trust account controlled by our professional general agencies. Our professional general agencies are typically required to forward funds, net of commissions, to us following the end of each month. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk on the aggregate amount of these balances that have been paid by the insured but have yet to reach us. Brokers, insurance companies and reinsurance companies typically pay premiums on reinsurance treaties written with us on a quarterly basis. This accumulation of balances due to us exposes us to a credit risk. Assumed premiums on reinsurance treaties generally flow from the ceding insurance and reinsurance companies to us on a quarterly basis. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk on the aggregate amount of these balances that have been collected by the reinsured but have yet to reach us. Because we provide our general agencies with specific quoting and binding authority, if any of them fail to comply with our pre-established guidelines, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We market and distribute our insurance products through professional general agencies that have limited quoting and binding authority and that in turn sell our insurance products to insureds through retail insurance brokers. These professional general agencies can bind certain risks without our initial approval. If any of these wholesale professional general agencies fail to comply with our underwriting guidelines and the terms of their appointment, we could be bound on a particular risk or number of risks that were not anticipated when we developed the insurance products or estimated loss and loss adjustment expenses. Such actions could adversely affect our results of operations. Our holding company structure and regulatory constraints limit our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries in order to meet our cash requirements. Global Indemnity is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own, and its assets primarily consist of cash and its ownership of the shares of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and 36 Table of Contents other permitted distributions from insurance subsidiaries, which include payment for equity awards granted by Global Indemnity to employees of such subsidiaries, are expected to be Global Indemnity’s sole source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. Due to our corporate structure, most of the dividends that Global Indemnity receives from its subsidiaries must pass through Wind River Reinsurance. The inability of Wind River Reinsurance to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Global Indemnity to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. Bermuda law does not permit payment of dividends or distributions of contributed surplus by a company if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company, after the payment is made, would be unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or the realizable value of the company’s assets would be less, as a result of the payment, than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Furthermore, pursuant to the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978, an insurance company is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend during the financial year if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause it to fail to meet such margin or ratio. See “Regulation—Bermuda Insurance Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. In addition, the U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries, which are indirect subsidiaries of Wind River Reinsurance, are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends, which must first pass through Wind River Reinsurance before being paid to Global Indemnity. See “Regulation—U.S. Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Also, see Note 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for the maximum amount of dividends that could be paid by the U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries in 2012. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may limit the way we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the U.S. states in which our Insurance Operations operate. This is particularly true in those states in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed, as opposed to those states where our insurance subsidiaries write business on a surplus lines basis. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is the protection of our insurance policyholders and not our investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory, and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of regulation covers, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the types of terms that we can include or exclude in the insurance policies we offer; • restrictions on the way rates are developed and the premiums we may charge; • standards for the manner in which general agencies may be appointed or terminated; • credit for reinsurance; • certain required methods of accounting; • reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; and • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. The statutes or the state insurance department regulations may affect the cost or demand for our products and may impede us from obtaining rate increases or taking other actions we might wish to take to increase our profitability. Further, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not 37 Table of Contents fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, regulatory authorities have discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals subject to the applicable state statutes and appeal process. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals (including in some states the requisite secretary of state registration) or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 U.S. States and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. In 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Federal Insurance Office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council as “systemically important.” While we do not believe that we are “systemically important,” as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act, it is possible that the Financial Stability Oversight Council may conclude that we are. If we were designated as “systemically important,” the Federal Reserve’s supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity, leverage, business and investment conduct. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers who may not be subject to the same level of regulation. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including the incurring of significant net catastrophe losses, our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that we need to raise additional funds, any equity or debt financing for this purpose, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have used and may in the future use a significant amount of our cash resources to repurchase shares of our ordinary shares and such repurchases present potential risks and disadvantages to us and our continuing shareholders. Since November 2011 and through March 14, 2012, we repurchased and retired an aggregate of 1,945,023 shares of our Class A ordinary shares in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at an aggregate price of $36.7 million or an average of $18.87 per share. We have outstanding authorization from our Board of Directors to purchase up to an additional $63.3 million of our Class A ordinary shares. Although our Board of Directors has determined that the repurchase program is in the best interests of our stockholders, the repurchases expose us to risks including: • the use of a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which may reduce our ability to engage in significant cash acquisitions or to pursue other business opportunities that could create significant value to our stockholders; 38 Table of Contents • the risk that we would not be able to replenish our cash reserves by raising debt or equity financing in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all; and • the risk that these repurchases have reduced our “public float,” which is the number of our shares owned by non-affiliate shareholders and available for trading in the securities markets, and likely reduced the number of our stockholders, which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and may result in lower stock prices and reduced liquidity in the trading of our shares. Interests of holders of Class A Ordinary Shares may conflict with the interests of our controlling shareholder. Fox Paine & Company beneficially owns shares having approximately 90.5% of our total voting power. The percentage of our total voting power that Fox Paine & Company may exercise is greater than the percentage of our total shares that Fox Paine & Company beneficially owns because Fox Paine & Company beneficially owns a large number of Class B ordinary shares, which have ten votes per share as opposed to Class A ordinary shares, which have one vote per share. The Class A ordinary shares and the Class B ordinary shares generally vote together as a single class on matters presented to our shareholders. Based on the ownership structure of the affiliates of Fox Paine & Company that own these shares, these affiliates are subject to the voting restriction contained in our articles of association. As a result, Fox Paine & Company has and will continue to have control over the outcome of certain matters requiring shareholder approval, including the power to, among other things: • elect all of our directors; • amend our articles of association (as long as their voting power is greater than 75%); • ratify the appointment of our auditors; • increase our share capital; • resolve to pay dividends or distributions; and • approve the annual report and the annual financial statements. Subject to certain exceptions, the Fox Paine Entities may also be able to prevent or cause a change of control. The Fox Paine Entities’ control over us, and Fox Paine & Company’s ability in certain circumstances to prevent or cause a change of control, may delay or prevent a change of control, or cause a change of control to occur at a time when it is not favored by other shareholders. As a result, the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares could be adversely affected. In addition, we have agreed to pay Fox Paine & Company, LLC an annual management fee of $1.5 million in exchange for management services and a termination fee of $10 million upon the termination of Fox Paine & Company, LLC’s management services in connection with the consummation of a “change of control” transaction that does not involve Fox Paine & Company, LLC and its affiliates or the Funds. We have also agreed to pay Fox Paine & Company, LLC a transaction advisory fee of one percent of the transaction value upon the consummation of a “change of control transaction” that does not involve Fox Paine & Company, LLC and its affiliates or the Funds in exchange for advisory services to be provided by Fox Paine & Company, LLC in connection therewith. Fox Paine & Company may in the future make significant investments in other insurance or reinsurance companies. Some of these companies may compete with us or with our subsidiaries. Fox Paine & Company is not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not prohibited or restricted from competing with us or with our subsidiaries. Our controlling shareholder has the contractual right to nominate a certain number of the members of our Board of Directors and also otherwise controls the election of Directors due to its ownership. While Fox Paine & Company has the right under the terms of the memorandum and articles of association to nominate a certain number of directors of our Board of Directors, dependant on Fox Paine & Company’s percentage ownership of voting shares in the Company for so long as Fox Paine & Company hold an aggregate 39 Table of Contents 25% or more of the voting power in the Company, it also controls the election of all directors to the Board of Directors due to its controlling share ownership. Our Board of Directors currently consists of eight directors, all of which, other than Ms. Valko, were identified and proposed for consideration for the Board of Directors by Fox Paine & Company. Our Board of Directors, in turn, and subject to its fiduciary duties under Irish law, appoints the members of our senior management, who also have fiduciary duties to the Company. As a result, Fox Paine & Company effectively has the ability to control the appointment of the members of our senior management and to prevent any changes in senior management that other shareholders or other members of our Board of Directors may deem advisable. Because we rely on certain services provided by Fox Paine & Company, the loss of such services could adversely affect our business. During 2009, 2010, and 2011, Fox Paine & Company provided certain management services to us. To the extent that Fox Paine & Company is unable or unwilling to provide similar services in the future, and we are unable to perform those services ourselves or we are unable to secure replacement services, our business could be adversely affected. Continued adverse consequences of the recent U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our stock price. In recent years, global market and economic conditions were severely disrupted. While conditions have since improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. The trend may not continue or may continue at a slow rate for an extended period of time, or conditions may worsen. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the availability of reinsurance protection, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs, and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results and shareholders’ equity may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Our Reinsurance Operations conduct business with some customers in foreign currencies, and some of our Non-U.S. Subsidiaries have foreign currency denominated cash accounts and investments. Monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are revalued at the current exchange rates each period end with the resulting gains or losses reflected in net income. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. We may experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of non-U.S. currencies relative to the strength of the U.S. Dollar, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are incorporated in Ireland and some of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and some of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our Directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and 40 Table of Contents commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 of Ireland (“the Companies Acts”) and other Irish statutes. The Companies Acts and other Irish statutes differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of Directors. Under Irish law, the duties of Directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against Directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only exercise such right of action on behalf of the Company in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a Director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. A transfer of our Class A ordinary shares by a seller who holds Class A ordinary shares beneficially through DTC to a buyer who holds the acquired Class A ordinary shares beneficially through DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. A transfer of our ordinary shares by a seller who holds shares directly to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially through DTC to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Stamp duty is a liability of the buyer or transferee and is currently levied at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Taxation Legislative and regulatory action by the U.S. Congress could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely or could broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. 41 Table of Contents We may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. United America Indemnity, Ltd. has been incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands as an exempted company and, as such, obtained an undertaking on September 2, 2003 from the Governor in Council of the Cayman Islands substantially that, for a period of 20 years from the date of such undertaking, no law that is enacted in the Cayman Islands imposing any tax to be levied on profit or income or gains or appreciation shall apply to us and no such tax and no tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax will be payable, either directly or by way of withholding, on our ordinary shares. This undertaking would not, however, prevent the imposition of taxes on any person ordinarily resident in the Cayman Islands or any company in respect of its ownership of real property or leasehold interests in the Cayman Islands. Given the limited duration of the undertaking, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to Cayman Islands tax after the expiration of the 20-year period. Wind River Reinsurance was formed in 2006 through the amalgamation of our Non-U.S. Operations. We received an assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Bermuda Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act of 1966, as amended, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Wind River Reinsurance or any of its operations, shares, debentures or other obligations through March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Following the expiration of the period described above, we may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Global Indemnity or Wind River Reinsurance may be subject to U.S. tax that may have a material adverse effect on Global Indemnity’s or Wind River Reinsurance’s results of operations. Global Indemnity is an Irish company and Wind River Reinsurance is a Bermuda company. We seek to manage our business in a manner designed to reduce the risk that Global Indemnity and Wind River Reinsurance will be treated as being engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not contend successfully that Global Indemnity or Wind River Reinsurance will be engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Global Indemnity or Wind River Reinsurance were considered to be engaged in a business in the United States, we could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of our earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The impact of the Cayman Islands’ Letter of Commitment or other concessions to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect the tax status of our subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated January 27, 2011, the Cayman Islands and Bermuda were not listed as uncooperative tax haven jurisdictions because each had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. 42 Table of Contents There is a risk that interest paid by our U.S. Subsidiaries to a Luxembourg affiliate may be subject to 30% U.S. withholding tax. U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l., an indirectly owned Luxembourg subsidiary of Wind River Reinsurance, owns two notes issued by Global Indemnity Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation. Under U.S. federal income tax law, interest paid by a U.S. corporation to a non-U.S. shareholder is generally subject to a 30% withholding tax, unless reduced by treaty. The income tax treaty between the United States and Luxembourg (the “Luxembourg Treaty”) generally eliminates the withholding tax on interest paid to qualified residents of Luxembourg. Were the IRS to contend successfully that U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l. is not eligible for benefits under the Luxembourg Treaty, interest paid to U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l. by Global Indemnity Group, Inc. would be subject to the 30% withholding tax. Such tax may be applied retroactively to all previous years for which the statute of limitations has not expired, with interest and penalties. Such a result may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. There is a risk that interest income imputed to our Irish affiliates may be subject to 25% Irish income tax. U.A.I. (Ireland) Limited is a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. The company is a resident taxpayer fully subject to Ireland corporate income tax of 12.5% on trading income and 25.0% on non-trading income, including interest and dividends from foreign companies. The company intends to manage its operations in such a way that there will not be any material taxable income generated in Ireland under Irish law. However, there can be no assurance from the Irish authorities that a law may not be enacted that would impute income to U.A.I. (Ireland) Limited in the future or retroactively arising out of our current operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 