Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those the Company believes to be material. If any of the following actually occur, the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Benefits of Acquiring American Reliable May Not Be Realized. There may be difficulties in integrating the businesses of American Reliable, which could result in a failure to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. Although it is expected that American Reliable will continue to operate as it did prior to the acquisition, achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend in part upon whether the common aspects of the business can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner with Global Indemnity’s existing businesses. In addition, there is the risk that the acquisition proves disruptive to the operations of the Company or American Reliable. Furthermore, the risk that the Company’s or American Reliable’s prospective insurance premiums, investment yield, or net earnings are less than anticipated (including as a result of unexpected events, competition, costs, charges or outlays whether as a consequence of the transaction or otherwise) could negatively impact the Company’s profitability and results of operations. If actual claims payments exceed the Company’s reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the insurance and reinsurance policies that it writes. The Company establishes reserves on an undiscounted basis to cover its estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the insurance policies that it writes. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves are estimates of what the Company expects to be the ultimate cost of resolution and administration of claims under the insurance policies that it writes. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections, the Company’s assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates and assumptions as to future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. The Company continually refines its reserve estimates in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported 31 Table of Contents and settled. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries obtain an annual statement of opinion from an independent actuarial firm on the reasonableness of these reserves. Establishing an appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process. The following factors may have a substantial impact on the Company’s future actual losses and loss adjustment experience: • claim and expense payments; • severity of claims; • legislative and judicial developments; and • changes in economic conditions, including the effect of inflation. For example, as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended exposures related to claims and coverage may emerge. Examples include claims relating to mold, asbestos and construction defects, as well as larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers. In addition, there is a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigations relating to claims handling, insurance sales practices and other practices. These exposures may either extend coverage beyond the Company’s underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, such developments could cause the Company’s level of reserves to be inadequate. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses the Company incurs under insurance policies that it writes may be different from the amount of reserves it establishes, and to the extent that actual losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed the Company’s expectations and the reserves reflected on its financial statements, the Company will be required to immediately reflect those changes by increasing its reserves. In addition, regulators could require that the Company increases its reserves if they determine that the reserves were understated in the past. When the Company increases reserves, pre-tax income for the period in which it does so will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition to having an effect on reserves and pre-tax income, increasing or “strengthening” reserves causes a reduction in the Company’s insurance companies’ surplus and could cause the rating of its insurance company subsidiaries to be downgraded or placed on credit watch. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell insurance policies. Catastrophic events can have a significant impact on the Company’s financial and operational condition. Results of operations of property and casualty insurers are subject to man-made and natural catastrophes. The Company has experienced, and expects to experience in the future, catastrophe losses. It is possible that a catastrophic event or a series of multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted if it experiences losses from catastrophes that are in excess of the catastrophe reinsurance coverage of its Insurance Operations. The Company’s Reinsurance Operations also have exposure to losses from catastrophes as a result of the reinsurance treaties that it writes. Operating results could be negatively impacted if losses and expenses related to property catastrophe events exceed premiums assumed. Catastrophes include windstorms, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, tsunamis, hail, severe winter weather, fires and may include terrorist events such as the attacks of September 11, 2001. The Company cannot predict how severe a particular catastrophe may be until after it occurs. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount and type of losses incurred, the number of insureds affected, the frequency of the events and the severity of the particular catastrophe. Most catastrophes occur in small geographic areas. However, some catastrophes may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. A failure in the Company’s operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt business, damage the Company’s reputation, and cause losses. The Company’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. The Company’s business depends on effective information 32 Table of Contents systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. The Company’s ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in the Company’s information systems. Although the Company takes protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable, externally and internally, to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have security consequences. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize the Company’s or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Company’s computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the Company’s, its clients’, its counterparties’, or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. The Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and the Company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained. Despite the contingency plans and facilities it has in place, the Company’s ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports its business in the communities in which the Company is located, or of outsourced services or functions. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services used by the Company. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings occupied by the Company or as a result of events with a broader effect on the cities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and the Company’s employees in that location are unable to occupy their offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, the Company’s ability to service and interact with clients may suffer and it may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. A decline in rating for any of the Company’s insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries could adversely affect its position in the insurance market; making it more difficult to market its insurance products and cause premiums and earnings to decrease. If the rating of any of the companies in its Insurance Operations or Reinsurance Operations is reduced from its current level of “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, the Company’s competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer, and it could be more difficult to market its insurance products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts the Company writes and in a substantial loss of business; as such business could move to other competitors with higher ratings, thus causing premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position for insurance companies. A.M. Best ratings currently range from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation), with a total of 16 separate ratings categories. A.M. Best currently assigns the companies in the Insurance Operations and Reinsurance Operations a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent), the third highest of their 16 rating categories. The objective of A.M. Best’s rating system is to provide potential policyholders an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and its ability to meet ongoing obligations, including paying claims. In evaluating a company’s financial and operating performance, A.M. Best reviews its profitability, leverage and liquidity, its spread of risk, the quality and appropriateness of its reinsurance, the quality and diversification of its assets, the adequacy of its policy and loss reserves, the adequacy of its surplus, its capital structure, and the experience and objectives of its management. These ratings are based on factors relevant to policyholders, general agencies, insurance brokers, reinsurers, and intermediaries and are not directed to the protection of investors. These ratings are not an evaluation of, nor are they directed to, investors in the Company’s A ordinary shares and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the Company’s A ordinary shares. Publications of A.M. Best indicate that companies are assigned “A” (Excellent) ratings if, in A.M. Best’s opinion, they have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. These ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best. 33 Table of Contents The Company cannot guarantee that its reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and as a result, the Company could experience losses. The Company cedes a portion of gross premiums written to third party reinsurers under reinsurance contracts. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to the Company to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve the Company of its liability to its policyholders. Upon payment of claims, the Company will bill its reinsurers for their share of such claims. The reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance receivables that they owe to the Company or they may not pay such receivables on a timely basis. If the reinsurers fail to pay it or fail to pay on a timely basis, the Company’s financial results would be adversely affected. Lack of reinsurer liquidity, perceived improper underwriting, or claim handling by the Company, and other factors could cause a reinsurer not to pay. See “Business—Reinsurance of Underwriting Risk” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. See Note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information surrounding the Company’s reinsurance receivable balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The Company’s investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which would in turn adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company derives a significant portion of its income from its invested assets. As a result, the Company’s operating results depend in part on the performance of its investment portfolio. The Company’s operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. The fair value of fixed income investments can fluctuate depending on changes in interest rates and the credit quality of underlying issuers. Generally, the fair market value of these investments has an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates, while net investment income earned by the Company from future investments in fixed maturities will generally increase or decrease with changes in interest rates. Additionally, with respect to certain of its investments, the Company is subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. Credit tightening could negatively impact the Company’s future investment returns and limit the ability to invest in certain classes of investments. Credit tightening may cause opportunities that are marginally attractive to not be financed, which could cause a decrease in the number of bond issuances. If marginally attractive opportunities are financed, they may be at higher interest rates, which would cause credit risk of such opportunities to increase. If new debt supply is curtailed, it could cause interest rates on securities that are deemed to be credit-worthy to decline. Funds generated by operations, sales, and maturities will need to be invested. If the Company invests during a tight credit market, investment returns could be lower than the returns the Company is currently realizing and/or it may have to invest in higher risk securities. With respect to its longer-term liabilities, the Company strives to structure its investments in a manner that recognizes liquidity needs for its future liabilities. However, if the Company’s liquidity needs or general and specific liability profile unexpectedly changes, it may not be successful in continuing to structure its investment portfolio in that manner. To the extent that the Company is unsuccessful in correlating its investment portfolio with its expected liabilities, the Company may be forced to liquidate its investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of its investment portfolio. The Company refers to this risk as liquidity risk, which is when the fair value of an investment is not able to be realized due to low demand by outside parties in the marketplace. The Company is also subject to credit risk due to non-payment of principal or interest. Several classes of securities that the Company holds have default risk. As interest rates rise for companies that are deemed to be less creditworthy, there is a greater risk that they will be unable to pay contractual interest or principal on their debt obligations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Although the Company attempts to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, the 34 Table of Contents Company may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Company’s fixed maturities securities. The Company also has an equity portfolio. The performance of the Company’s equity portfolio is dependent upon a number of factors, including many of the same factors that affect the performance of its fixed income investments, although those factors sometimes have the opposite effect on the performance of the equity portfolio. Individual equity securities have unsystemic risk. The Company could experience market declines on these investments. The Company also has systemic risk, which is the risk inherent in the general market due to broad macroeconomic factors that affect all companies in the market. If the market indexes were to decline, the Company anticipates that the value of its portfolio would be negatively affected. The Company has investments in limited partnerships which are not liquid. The Company does not have the contractual option to redeem its limited partnership interests but receives distributions based on the liquidation of the underlying assets. The Company does not have the ability to sell or transfer its limited partnership interests without consent from the general partner. The Company’s returns could be negatively affected if the market value of the partnership declines. If the Company needs liquidity, it might be forced to liquidate other investments at a time when prices are not optimal. See Note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information surrounding the Company’s investments as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. Deterioration in the debt and equity markets could result in a margin call which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. The collateral backing the Company’s margin borrowing facilities consist of fixed income and equity securities. Declines in financial markets could negatively impact the value of the Company’s collateral. Adverse changes in market value could result in a margin call which would require the posting of additional collateral thereby reducing liquidity. Additionally, if such a margin call is not met, the Company could be required to liquidate securities and incur realized losses. Borrowings under the Company’s margin borrowing facilities are based upon a variable rate of interest, which could result in higher expense in the event of increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2014, $175 million of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness bore interest at a rate that varies depending upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). If LIBOR rises, the interest rates on outstanding debt will increase resulting in increased interest payment obligations under the Company’s margin borrowing facilities. This could have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flow and financial condition. The Company is dependent on its senior executives and the loss of any of these executives or the Company’s inability to attract and retain other key personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement the Company’s business strategy. The Company believes there are a limited number of available, qualified executives in the business lines in which it competes. The success of the Company’s initiatives and future performance depend, in significant part, upon the continued service of the senior management team. The future loss of any of the services of members of the Company’s senior management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of the Company’s business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, the Company does not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of its employees. 35 Table of Contents Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Resultant losses could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Since the Company depends on professional general agencies, brokers, other insurance companies and other reinsurance companies for a significant portion of its revenue, a loss of any one of them could adversely affect the Company. The Company markets and distributes its insurance products through a group of approximately 110 professional general agencies that have specific quoting and binding authority and that in turn sell the Company’s insurance products to insureds through retail insurance brokers. The Company also markets and distributes its reinsurance products through third-party brokers, insurance companies and reinsurance companies. A loss of all or substantially all of the business produced by any one of these general agencies, brokers, insurance companies or reinsurance companies could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, the Company may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. As part of the Company’s overall strategy of risk and capacity management, it purchases reinsurance for a portion of the risk underwritten by its insurance subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance it purchases, which may affect the level of its business and profitability. The Company’s third party reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. The Company may be unable to maintain its current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If the Company is unable to renew expiring facilities or obtain new reinsurance facilities, either the net exposure to risk would increase or, if the Company is unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, it would have to reduce the amount of risk it underwrites. The Company’s results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. Historically, the results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • competition; • capital capacity; • rising levels of actual costs that are not foreseen by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • changes in loss reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may affect the ultimate payout of losses. The demand for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. The property and casualty insurance 36 Table of Contents industry historically is cyclical in nature. These fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The Company faces significant competitive pressures in its business that could cause demand for its products to fall and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company competes with a large number of other companies in its selected lines of business. The Company competes, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, reinsurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. The Company’s competitors include, among others: American International Group, Argo Group International Holdings, Ltd., Berkshire Hathaway, Everest Re Group, Ltd., Great American Insurance Group, HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., IFG Companies, Markel Corporation, Nationwide Insurance, Navigators Insurance Group, RLI Corporation, Selective Insurance Group, Inc., The Travelers Companies, Inc., W.R. Berkley Corporation, and Western World Insurance Group. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company does. The Company’s profitability could be adversely affected if it loses business to competitors offering similar products at or below the Company’s prices. The Company’s general agencies typically pay the insurance premiums on business they have bound to the Company on a monthly basis. This accumulation of balances due to the Company exposes it to credit risk. Insurance premiums generally flow from the insured to their retail broker, then into a trust account controlled by the Company’s professional general agencies. The Company’s professional general agencies are typically required to forward funds, net of commissions, to the Company following the end of each month. Consequently, the Company assumes a degree of credit risk on the aggregate amount of these balances that have been paid by the insured but have yet to reach the Company. Brokers, insurance companies and reinsurance companies typically pay premiums on reinsurance treaties written with the Company on a quarterly basis. This accumulation of balances due to the Company exposes it to credit risk. Assumed premiums on reinsurance treaties generally flow from the ceding companies to the Company on a quarterly basis. In some instances, the reinsurance treaties allow for funds to be withheld for longer periods as specified in the treaties. Consequently, the Company assumes a degree of credit risk on the aggregate amount of these balances that have been collected by the reinsured but have yet to reach the Company. Because the Company provides its general agencies with specific quoting and binding authority, if any of them fail to comply with pre-established guidelines, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company markets and distributes its insurance products through professional general agencies that have limited quoting and binding authority and that in turn sell the Company’s insurance products to insureds through retail insurance brokers. These professional general agencies can bind certain risks without the Company’s initial approval. If any of these wholesale professional general agencies fail to comply with the Company’s underwriting guidelines and the terms of their appointment, the Company could be bound on a particular risk or number of risks that were not anticipated when it developed the insurance products or estimated loss and loss adjustment expenses. Such actions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s holding company structure and regulatory constraints limit its ability to receive dividends from subsidiaries in order to meet its cash requirements. Global Indemnity is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own. The Company’s assets primarily consist of cash and ownership of the shares of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and 37 Table of Contents other permitted distributions from insurance subsidiaries, which include payment for equity awards granted by Global Indemnity to employees of such subsidiaries, are expected to be Global Indemnity’s sole source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. Due to its corporate structure, most of the dividends that Global Indemnity receives from its subsidiaries must pass through Global Indemnity Reinsurance. The inability of Global Indemnity Reinsurance to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Global Indemnity to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. Bermuda law does not permit payment of dividends or distributions of contributed surplus by a company if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company, after the payment is made, would be unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or the realizable value of the company’s assets would be less, as a result of the payment, than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Furthermore, pursuant to the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978, an insurance company is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend during the financial year if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause it to fail to meet such margin or ratio. See “Regulation—Bermuda Insurance Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. In addition, the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries, which are indirect subsidiaries of Global Indemnity Reinsurance, are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends, which must first pass through Global Indemnity Reinsurance before being paid to Global Indemnity. See “Regulation—U.S. Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Also, see Note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for the maximum amount of dividends that could be paid by the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries in 2015. The Company’s businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may limit the way it operates. The Company is subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the U.S. states in which the Insurance Operations operate. This is particularly true in those states in which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries are licensed, as opposed to those states where its insurance subsidiaries write business on a surplus lines basis. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of the Company’s business and financial condition. The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is the protection of the Company’s insurance policyholders and not its investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory, and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of regulation covers, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the types of terms that the Company can include or exclude in the insurance policies it offers; • restrictions on the way rates are developed and the premiums the Company may charge; • standards for the manner in which general agencies may be appointed or terminated; • credit for reinsurance; • certain required methods of accounting; • reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; and • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. 38 Table of Contents The statutes or the state insurance department regulations may affect the cost or demand for the Company’s products and may impede the Company from obtaining rate increases or taking other actions it might wish to take to increase profitability. Further, the Company may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and its business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, regulatory authorities have discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals subject to the applicable state statutes and appeal process. If the Company does not have the requisite licenses and approvals (including in some states the requisite secretary of state registration) or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop or temporarily suspend the Company from carrying on some or all of its activities or monetarily penalize the Company. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 U.S. States and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. In 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Federal Insurance Office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council as “systemically important.” While the Company does not believe that it is “systemically important,” as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act, it is possible that the Financial Stability Oversight Council may conclude that it is. If the Company were designated as “systemically important,” the Federal Reserve’s supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding the Company’s capital, liquidity, leverage, business and investment conduct. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on the Company, including impacting the ways in which it conducts business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers who may not be subject to the same level of regulation. The Company may require additional capital in the future that may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. The Company’s future capital requirements depend on many factors, including the incurring of significant net catastrophe losses, its ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the Company needs to raise additional funds, any equity or debt financing for this purpose, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to the Company. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents The Company has used and may in the future use a significant amount of its cash resources to repurchase its ordinary shares and such repurchases present potential risks and disadvantages to the Company and its continuing shareholders. The Company does not currently have authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase A ordinary shares. However, the Company may be authorized to purchase A ordinary shares by the Board of Directors in the future and future repurchases of the Company’s shares exposes it to risks including: • the use of a substantial portion of the Company’s cash reserves, which may reduce its ability to engage in significant cash acquisitions or to pursue other business opportunities that could create significant value to shareholders; • the risk that the Company would not be able to replenish its cash reserves by raising debt or equity financing in the future on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all; and • the risk that these repurchases would reduce the Company’s “public float,” which is the number of shares owned by non-affiliate shareholders and available for trading in the securities markets, and would likely reduce the number of the Company’s shareholders, which may reduce the volume of trading in its shares and may result in lower stock prices and reduced liquidity in the trading of the Company’s shares. The interests of holders of A ordinary shares may conflict with the interests of the Company’s controlling shareholder. Fox Paine & Company, LLC (“Fox Paine & Company”) beneficially owns shares having approximately 93% of the Company’s total voting power. The percentage of the Company’s total voting power that Fox Paine & Company may exercise is greater than the percentage of the Company’s total shares that Fox Paine & Company beneficially owns because Fox Paine & Company beneficially owns all of the Company’s B ordinary shares, which have ten votes per share as opposed to A ordinary shares, which have one vote per share. The A ordinary shares and the B ordinary shares generally vote together as a single class on matters presented to the Company’s shareholders. Based on the ownership structure of the affiliates of Fox Paine & Company that own these shares, these affiliates are subject to the voting restriction contained in the Company’s articles of association. As a result, Fox Paine & Company has and will continue to have control over the outcome of certain matters requiring shareholder approval, including the power to, among other things: • elect all of the Company’s directors; • amend the Company’s articles of association (as long as their voting power is greater than 75%); • ratify the appointment of the Company’s auditors; • increase the Company’s share capital; • resolve to pay dividends or distributions; and • approve the annual report and the annual financial statements. Subject to certain exceptions, Fox Paine & Company may also be able to prevent or cause a change of control. Fox Paine & Company’s control over the Company, and Fox Paine & Company’s ability in certain circumstances to prevent or cause a change of control, may delay or prevent a change of control, or cause a change of control to occur at a time when it is not favored by other shareholders. As a result, the trading price of the Company’s A ordinary shares could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has agreed to pay Fox Paine & Company an annual management fee of $1.9 million, adjusted annually to reflect change in the consumer price index published by the US Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics “CPI-U”, in exchange for management services. The Company has also agreed to pay a termination fee of cash in an amount to be agreed upon, plus reimbursement of expenses upon the termination of 40 Table of Contents Fox Paine & Company’s management services in connection with the consummation of a change of control transaction that does not involve Fox Paine & Company and its affiliates. The Company has also agreed to pay Fox Paine & Company a transaction advisory fee of cash in an amount to be agreed upon, plus reimbursement of expenses upon the consummation of a change of control transaction that does not involve Fox Paine & Company and its affiliates in exchange for advisory services to be provided by Fox Paine & Company in connection therewith. Fox Paine & Company may in the future make significant investments in other insurance or reinsurance companies. Some of these companies may compete with the Company or its subsidiaries. Fox Paine & Company is not obligated to advise the Company of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not prohibited or restricted from competing with the Company or its subsidiaries. The Company’s controlling shareholder has the contractual right to nominate a certain number of the members of the Board of Directors and also otherwise controls the election of Directors due to its ownership. While Fox Paine & Company has the right under the terms of the memorandum and articles of association to nominate a certain number of directors of the Board of Directors, dependent on Fox Paine & Company’s percentage ownership of voting shares in the Company for so long as Fox Paine & Company hold an aggregate 25% or more of the voting power in the Company, it also controls the election of all directors to the Board of Directors due to its controlling share ownership. The Company’s Board of Directors currently consists of seven directors, all of whom were identified and proposed for consideration for the Board of Directors by Fox Paine & Company. The Company’s Board of Directors, in turn, and subject to its fiduciary duties under Irish law, appoints the members of the Company’s senior management, who also have fiduciary duties to the Company. As a result, Fox Paine & Company effectively has the ability to control the appointment of the members of the Company’s senior management and to prevent any changes in senior management that other shareholders or other members of the Board of Directors may deem advisable. Because the Company relies on certain services provided by Fox Paine & Company, the loss of such services could adversely affect its business. Fox Paine & Company provides certain management services to the Company. To the extent that Fox Paine & Company is unable or unwilling to provide similar services in the future, and the Company is unable to perform those services itself or is unable to secure replacement services, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Adverse consequences of the U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm the Company’s business, its liquidity and financial condition, and its stock price. In recent years, global market and economic conditions were severely disrupted. While conditions have since improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. The trend may not continue or may continue at a slow rate for an extended period of time, or conditions may worsen. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of the Company’s business) the demand for and claims made under the Company’s products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with the Company, its ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the availability of reinsurance protection, the risks the Company assumes under reinsurance programs, and the Company’s investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect the Company’s stock price. Global Indemnity has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. If Global Indemnity is unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports and the trading price of its common stock may be negatively affected. In connection with its preparation of the 2014 financial statements, the Company determined that a material weakness existed in its internal control over financial reporting, as described in more detail in Item 9A of this 41 Table of Contents report. In light of this material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2014. Management is taking steps to remediate the identified material weakness, as described in more detail in Item 9A of this report, and expects these steps to be completed in the first quarter of 2015. While the Company believes these steps will improve the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, if its remediation efforts are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in its internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, the Company’s financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the Company’s financial reports, negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, result in regulatory scrutiny (which could require additional financial and management resources), and otherwise materially adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company’s operating results and shareholders’ equity may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. The Company’s functional currency is the U.S. dollar. The Reinsurance Operations conducts business with some customers in foreign currencies and several of the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries maintains investments and cash accounts in foreign currencies. At period-end, the Company re-measures non-U.S. currency financial assets to their current U.S. dollar equivalent. The resulting gain or loss for foreign denominated investments is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity; whereas, the gain or loss on foreign denominated cash accounts is reflected in income during the period. Financial liabilities, if any, are generally adjusted within the reserving process. However, for known losses on claims to be paid in foreign currencies, the Company re-measures the liabilities to their current U.S. dollar equivalent each period end with the resulting gain or loss reflected in income during the period. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of the Company’s risk management process. The Company may experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of non-U.S. currencies relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company is incorporated in Ireland and some of its assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. The Company is organized under the laws of Ireland, and some of its assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against the Company in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where the Company has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the Company or its Directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against the Company or those persons based on those laws. The Company has been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where the Company has assets. 42 Table of Contents Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. The Company’s shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, the Company is governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2013 of Ireland (“the Companies Acts”) and other Irish statutes. The Companies Acts and other Irish statutes differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested Directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of Directors. Under Irish law, the duties of Directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against Directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only exercise such right of action on behalf of the Company in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a Director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A future transfer of ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in Depository Trust Company (“DTC”), may be subject to Irish stamp duty. A transfer of the Company’s A ordinary shares by a seller who holds A ordinary shares beneficially through DTC to a buyer who holds the acquired A ordinary shares beneficially through DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. A transfer of the Company’s ordinary shares by a seller who holds shares directly to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially through DTC to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Stamp duty is a liability of the buyer or transferee and is currently levied at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of the Company’s ordinary shares. Risks Related to Taxation Legislative and regulatory action by the U.S. Congress could materially and adversely affect the Company. The Company’s tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which the Company relies or could broaden the circumstances under which the Company would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s effective tax rate and cash tax position. The Company may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company has subsidiaries which have been incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands as exempted companies and, as such, obtained an undertaking on September 2, 2003 from the Governor in Council of the Cayman Islands substantially that, for a period of 20 years from the date of such undertaking, no law that is enacted in the Cayman Islands imposing any tax to be levied on profit or income or gains or appreciation shall apply to the Company and no such tax and no tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax will be payable, either directly or by way of withholding, on the Company’s ordinary shares. This undertaking would not, however, prevent the imposition of taxes on any person ordinarily resident in the Cayman Islands or any company in respect of its ownership of real property or leasehold interests in the Cayman Islands. Given the limited duration of the undertaking, the Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to Cayman Islands tax after the expiration of the 20-year period. 43 Table of Contents Global Indemnity Reinsurance was formed in 2006 through the amalgamation of the Company’s non-U.S. operations. The Company received an assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Bermuda Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act of 1966, as amended, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Global Indemnity Reinsurance or any of its operations, shares, debentures or other obligations through March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the assurance, the Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Following the expiration of the periods described above, the Company may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda, which may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Global Indemnity or Global Indemnity Reinsurance may be subject to U.S. tax that may have a material adverse effect on Global Indemnity’s or Global Indemnity Reinsurance’s results of operations. Global Indemnity is an Irish company and Global Indemnity Reinsurance is a Bermuda company. The Company seeks to manage its business in a manner designed to reduce the risk that Global Indemnity and Global Indemnity Reinsurance will be treated as being engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, the Company cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not contend successfully that Global Indemnity or Global Indemnity Reinsurance will be engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Global Indemnity or Global Indemnity Reinsurance were considered to be engaged in a business in the United States, the Company could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The impact of the Cayman Islands’ Letter of Commitment or other concessions to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect the tax status of the Company’s subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. The Cayman Islands and Bermuda are not listed as uncooperative tax haven jurisdictions because each had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. The Company is not able to predict what changes will arise from the OECD in the future or whether such changes will subject it to additional taxes. There is a risk that interest paid by the Company’s U.S. subsidiary to a Luxembourg affiliate may be subject to 30% U.S. withholding tax. U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l., an indirectly owned Luxembourg subsidiary of Global Indemnity Reinsurance, owns two notes and a loan issued by Global Indemnity Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation. Under U.S. federal income tax law, interest paid by a U.S. corporation to a non-U.S. shareholder is generally subject to a 30% withholding tax, unless reduced by treaty. The income tax treaty between the United States and Luxembourg (the “Luxembourg Treaty”) generally eliminates the withholding tax on interest paid to qualified residents of Luxembourg. Were the IRS to contend successfully that U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l. is not eligible for benefits under the Luxembourg Treaty, interest paid to U.A.I. (Luxembourg) Investment, S.à.r.l. by Global Indemnity Group, Inc. would be subject to the 30% withholding tax. Such tax may be applied retroactively to all previous years for which the statute of limitations has not expired, with interest and penalties. Such a result may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. 44 Table of Contents There is a risk that interest income imputed to the Company’s Irish affiliates may be subject to 25% Irish income tax. U.A.I. (Ireland) Limited is a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. The company is a resident taxpayer fully subject to Ireland corporate income tax of 12.5% on trading income and 25.0% on non-trading income, including interest and dividends from foreign companies. The Company intends to manage its operations in such a way that there will not be any material taxable income generated in Ireland under Irish law. However, there can be no assurance from the Irish authorities that a law may not be enacted that would impute income to U.A.I. (Ireland) Limited in the future or retroactively arising out of the Company’s current operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 