ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as anall-inclusive list of risks or presenting the risk factors listed in any particular order. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC when evaluating our Company. Should any of the events discussed in the risk factors below occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially affected. Additional risks unknown at this time, or risks we currently deem im material, may also impact our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business and Industries General economic and financial market conditions may have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition of all of our business segments. General economic and finan cial market conditions, including the availability and cost of credit, the loss of consumer confidence, reduction in consumer or business spending, inflation, unemployment, energy costs and geopolitical issues, have contributed to increased uncertainty and volatility as well as diminished expectations for the U.S. economy and the financial markets. These conditions could materially and adversely affect each of our businesses. Adverse economic and financial market conditions could result in: • a reduction in the demand for, and availability of, consumer credit, which could result in reduced demand by consumers for our Payment Protection products and our Payment Protection clients opting to no longer make such products available:• higher than anticipated loss ratios on our Payment Protection products due to rising unemployment or disability claims;• higher risk of increased fraudulent insurance claims;• individuals terminating loans or canceling credit insurance policies, thereby reducing our revenues;• businesses reducing the amount of coverage under surplus lines and specialty admitted insurance policies or allowing such policies to lapse thereby reducing our premium or commission income in our Wholesale Brokerage business;• a reduction in demand for new surplus lines and specialty insurance policies from retail insurance brokers and agents or retail insurance brokers and agents and insurance companies ceasing to offer our surplus lines and specialty insurance products and related services from our Wholesale Brokerage business; • our clients being more likely to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy or liquidation, which could have an adverse impact on demand for our services and products and the r emittance of premiums from such customers, as well as the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums, commissions or BPO-related accounts receivable, which could make the collection of receivables from our clients more difficult;• increased pricing sensitivity or reduced demand for our services and products;• increased costs associated with, or the inability to obtain, debt financing to fund acquisitions or the expansion of our businesses; and• defaults in our fixed income investment portfolio or lower than anticipated rates of return as a result of low interest rate environments. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic or financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to such changes, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face significant competition in each of our businesses. Competition in our businesses is based on many factors, including price, industry knowledge, quality of client service, the effectiveness of our sales force, technology platforms and processes, the security and integrity of our information systems, the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, office locations, breadth of services and products and brand recognition and reputation. Some competitors may offer a broader array of services and products, may have a greater diversity of distribution resources, may have better brand recognition, may have lower cost structures or, with respect to insurers, may have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings. Some competitors also have larger client bases than we do. In addition, new competitors could enter our markets in the future. The competitive landscape for each of our businesses is described below. font> • Payment Protection - In our Payment Protection business, we compete with insurance companies, financial institutions and other insurance service providers. The principal competitors for our Payment Protection business 10 include Aon Corporation, Assurant, Inc., Asurion Corporation and smaller regional companies. As a result of state and federal regulatory developments and changes in prior years, certain financial institutions are able to offer debt cancellation plans and are also able to affiliate with other insurance companies in order to offer services similar to those in our Payment Protection business. This has resulted in new competitors, some of whom have significant financial resources, entering some of our markets. As financial institutions gain experience with payment protection programs, their reliance on our services and products may diminish.< /font> • BPO - Our BPO business competes with a variety of companies, including large multinational firms that provide consulting, technology and/or business process services, off-shore business process service providers in low-cost locations like India, and in-house captives of potential clients. Our principal business process outsourcing competitors include Aon Corporation, Computer Sciences Corporation, Direct Response Insurance Administration Services, Inc., Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Perot Systems Corporation (a subsidiary of Dell, Inc.) and Unisys Corporation. The trend toward outsourcing and technological changes may also result in new and different competitors entering our markets. There could also be newer competitors with strong competitive positions as a result of consolidation of smaller competitors or of companies that each provide different services or serve different industries. • Wholesale Brokerage - Our Wholesale Brokerage business competes for retail insurance clients with numerous firms, including AmWINS Group, Inc., Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., Brown & Brown, Inc. and The Swett & Crawford Group, Inc. Many of our Wholesale Brokerage competitors have relationships with insurance companies or have a significant presence in niche insurance markets that may give them an advantage over us. Because relationships between insurance intermediaries and insurance companies or clients are often local or regional in nature, this potential competitive disadvantage is particularly pronounced outside of California. This could also impact our ability to compete effectively in any new state s or regions that we enter. A number of standard market insurance companies are engaged in the sale of products that compete with those products we offer. These carriers sell their products directly through retail agents and brokers without the involvement of a wholesale broker, which may yield higher commissions to retail agents and brokers and may impact our ability to compete. We expect competition to intensify in each of our businesses. Increased competition may result in lower prices and volumes, higher personnel and sales and marketing costs, increased technology expenditures and lower profitability. We may not be able to supply clients with services that they deem superior and at competitive prices and we may lose business to our c ompetitors. If we are unable to compete effectively in any of our business segments, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results of operations difficult to predict. If our results of operations fall below expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. Our annual and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, our expense s as a percentage of revenues may be significantly different than our historical rates. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Factors that may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period-to-period include: • demand for our services and products;• the length of our sales cycle;• the amount of sales to new clients: • the timing of implementations of our services and products with new clients; • pricing and availability of surplus lines and other specialty insurance products coverages; • seasonality;• the timing of acquisitions;• competitive factors;• prevailing interest rates;• pricing changes by us or our competitors; • transaction volumes in our clients' businesses; • the introduction of new services and products by us and our competitors;• changes in regulatory and accounting standards; and• our ability to control costs. In addition, our Payment Protection revenues can vary depending on the level of consumer activity and the success of our clients in selling payment protection products. In our Wholesale Brokerage business, our commission income can vary due to the timing of policy renewals, as well as the timing and amount of the receipt of profit commission payments and the n et effect of new and lost business production. We do not control the factors that cause these variations. Specifically, customers' demand for insurance products can influence the timing of renewals, new business, lost business (which includes policies that are not 11 renewed) and cancellations. In addition, we rely on retail insurance brokers and agents and insurance companies for the payment of certain commissions. Because these payments are processed internally by these companies, we may not receive a payment that is otherwise expected from a partic ular firm in one period until after the end of that period, which can adversely affect our ability to budget for such period. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to retain our existing clients, cannot sell additional services and products to our existing clients, do not introduce new or enhanced services and products or are not able to attract and retain new clients. Our revenue and revenue growth are dependent on our ability to retain clients, to sell them additional services and products, to introduce new services and products and to attract new clients in each of our b usinesses. Our ability to increase revenues will depend on a variety of factors, including: • the quality and perceived value of our product and service offerings by existing and new clients; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • the speed with which our Wholesale Brokerage business can respond to requests for price quotes from retail insurance agents and brokers, and the availability of competitive services and products from our carriers; • the successful installation and implementation of our services and products for new and existing Payment Protection and BPO clients; • availability of capital to complete investments in new or complementary products, services and technologies; • the availability of adequate reinsurance for us and our clients, including the ability of our clients to form, capitalize and operate captive reinsurance companies; • our ability to find suitable acquisition candidates, successfully complete such acquisitions and effectively integrate such acquisitions; • our ability to integrate technology into our services and products to avoid obsolescence and provide scalability; • the reliability, execution and accuracy of our services, particularly our BPO services; and • client willingness to accept any price increases for our services and products. In addition, we are subject to risks of losing clients due to consolidation in each of the markets we serve. Our inability to retain existing clients, sell additional services and products, or successfully develop and implement new and enhanced services and products and attract new clients and, accordingly, increase our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We typically face a long selling cycle to secure new clients in each of our businesses as well as long implementatio n periods that require significant resource commitments, which result in a long lead time before we receive revenues from new client relationships. The industries in which we compete generally consist of mature businesses and markets and the companies that participate in these industries have well-established business operations, systems and relationships. Accordingly, each of our businesses typically faces a long selling cycle to secure a new client. Even if we are successful in obtaining a new client engagement, that is generally followed by a long implementation period in which the services are planned in detail and we demonstrate to the client that we can successfully integrate our processes and resources with their operations. We also typically negotiate and enter into a contractual relationship with the new client during this period. There is then a long implementation period in order to commence providing the services. We typically incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle. We may not succeed in winning a new client's business, in which case we receive no revenues and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential client and begin to plan the services in detail, such potential client may choose a competitor or decide to retain the work in-house prior to the time a final contract is signed. If we enter into a contract with a client, we will typically receive no revenues until implementation actually begins. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is based upon the success of our clients' marketing programs, which may not generate the transac tion volume we anticipate. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby further lengthening the implementation cycle. If we are not successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle, in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle or in maintaining or reducing the duration of unprofitable initial periods in our contracts, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the time and effort required to complete the implementation phases of new contracts makes it difficult to accurately predict the timing of revenues from new clients as well as our costs. 12 Acquisitions are a significant part of our growth strategy and we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, completing such acquisitions or integrating the acquired businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or growth. Historically, acquisitions have played a significant role in our expansion into new businesses and in the growth of some of our businesses. Acquiring complementary businesses is a significant component of our growt h strategy. Accordingly, we frequently evaluate possible acquisition transactions for our business. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions, and such transactions may not be financed and completed on acceptable terms. Furthermore, any future acquisitions may not be successful. In addition, we may be competing with larger competitors with substantially greater resources for acquisition targets. Any deficiencies in the process of integrating companies we may acquire could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions entail a number of risks including, among other things: • failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • increased expenses; < font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;">• diversion of management time and attention; • failure to retain customers or personnel; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies: • ability to realize synergies and cost savings; • difficulties in integrating systems and personnel; and • inaccurate assessment of liabilities. Our failure to adequately address these acquisition risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash resources available to fund our operations and capital expenditures and could result in increased amortization expense related to any intangible assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could increase our interest expense. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially and adversely affected by errors and omissions and the outcome of certain actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings. We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with our conduct in each of our businesses, including the handling and adjudicating of claims and the placement of insurance. Because such placement of insurance and handling claims can involve substantial amounts of money, clients may assert errors and omissions claims against us alleging potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards, and these claims may involve potentially significant legal costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or sub-agents improperly failed to procure coverage, report claims on behalf of clients, provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. While we would expect most of the errors and omissions claims made against us (subject to our self-insured deductibles) to be covered by our professional indemnity insurance, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or if there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be materially and adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addit ion, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. We may lose clients or business as a result of consolidation within the financial services industry. There has been considerable consolidation in the financial services industry, driven primarily by the acquisition of small and mid-size organizations by larger entities. We expect this trend to continue. As a result, we may lose business or suffer decreased revenues from retail insurance brokerage firms that are acquired by other firms. Similarly, we may lose business or suffer decreas ed revenues if one or more of our Payment Protection clients or distributors consolidate or align themselves with other companies. To date, our business has not been materially affected by consolidation. However, we may be affected by industry consolidation that occurs in the future, particularly if any of our significant clients are acquired by organizations that already possess the operations, services and products that we provide. Our ability to implement and execute our strategic plans may not be successful and, accordingly, we may not be successful in achieving our strategic goals, which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may not be successful in developing and implementing our strategic plans for our businesses or the operational plans that have been or need to be developed to implement these strategic plans. If the development or implementation of such plans is not successful, we may not produce the revenue, margins, earnings or synergies that we need to be successful. We may also 13 face delays or difficulties in implementing product, process and system improvements, which could adversely affect the timing or effectiveness of margin im provement efforts in our businesses and our ability to successfully compete in the markets we serve. The execution of our strategic and operating plans will, to some extent, also be dependent on external factors that we cannot control. In addition, these strategic and operational plans need to continue to be assessed and reassessed to meet the challenges and needs of our businesses in order for us to remain competitive. The failure to implement and execute our strategic and operating plans in a timely manner or at all, realize the cost savings or other benefits or improvements associated with such plans, have financial resources to fund the costs associated with such plans or incur costs in excess of anticipated amounts, or sufficiently assess and reassess these plans could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may not effectively manage our growth, which could materially harm our business. The growth of our business has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management, personnel, systems and resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, and we will need to continue to expand, train and manage our personnel. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, compliance, risk management, accounting, finance, marketing and sales organizations. We may not manage our growth effectively, and if we fail to do so, our business could be materially and adversely harmed. If we continue to grow, we may be required to increase our investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. Continued growth may also require expansion of our procedures for monitoring and assuring our compliance with applicable regulations and that we recruit, integrate, train and manage a growing employee base. The expansion of our existing businesses, our expansion into new businesses and the resulting growth of our employee base increase our need for internal audit and monitoring processes that are more extensive and broader in scope than those we have historically required. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary. Further, unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our operating margins and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations. We act as a holding company for our subsidiaries and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to meet our obligations and pay dividends, if any, on our common stock. These obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal payments on our current and any future borrowings. The agreements governing our revolving credit facilitie s restrict our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or otherwise transfer cash to us. Under the agreement with SunTrust Bank and CB&T, our subsidiaries are permitted to make distributions to us if no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such distribution. Under our agreement with Wells Fargo, our restricted subsidiary is permitted to make quarterly distributions to us if (i) both prior to and after such payment no default or event of default has occurred or is continuing or would result from such payment and (ii) such subsidiary has provided the lender under such facility its financial statements for the most recently completed quarter and certified to the lender that condition (i) above is satisfied. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividends or otherwise is insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, or if a subsidiary is unable to pay dividends to us, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance o f additional equity or the sale of assets. The payment of dividends and other distributions to us by each of the regulated insurance company subsidiaries in our Payment Protection segment is regulated by insurance laws and regulations of the states in which they operate. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed "extraordinary" and require insurance regulatory approval. Ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by state. Some states have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. States also regulate transactions between our insurance company subsidiaries and our other subsidiaries, such as those relating to the shared services, and in some instances, require prior approval of such transactions within the holding company structure. If insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, the regulators may block or otherwise restrict such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. In addition, there could be future regulatory actions restricting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or share services. Our success is dependent upon the retention and acquisition of talented people and the skills and abilities of our management team and key per sonnel. Our business depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior executives, particularly our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard S. Kahlbaugh. Mr. Kahlbaugh and our other senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and identifying business opportunities. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could impair our 14 business and development until qualified replacements are found. We may not be able to replace these individuals quickly or with persons of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers except for Mr. Kahlbaugh. If we are unable to attract and retain talented employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but there is no assurance that such capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional funds in order to grow our businesses or fund our strategy or acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders if raised through additional equity offerings. Additionally, any securities issued to raise such funds may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, our ability to expand, develop or enhance our services and products, enter new markets, consummate acquisitions or respond to competitive pressures could be materially limited. font>Risks Related to Our Payment Protection Business Our Payment Protection business relies on independent financial institutions, lenders and retailers to distribute its services and products, and the loss of these distribution sources, or the failure of our distribution sources to sell our Payment Protection products could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We distribute our Payment Protection products through financial institutions, lenders and retailers. Our contracts with these clients are typically not exclusive and many of these clients offer payment protection services and products of our competitors. Our relationships with these clients can be canceled on relatively short notice. In addition, the distributors typically do not have any minimum performance or sales requirements and our Payment Protection revenue is dependent on the level of business conducted by the distributor as well as the effectiveness of their sales efforts for our Payment Protection products, each of which is beyond our control. The impairment of our distribution relationships, the loss of a significant number of our distribution relationships, the failure to establish new distribution relationships, the increase in sales of competitors' services and products by these distributors or the decline in their overall business activity or the effectiveness of their sales of our Payment Protection products could materially reduce our Payment Protection sales and revenues. Also, the growth of our Payment Protection business is dependent in part on our ability to identify, attract and retain new distribution relationships and successfully implement our information systems with those of our new distributors. Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for a substantial portion of the risks underwritten by our Payment Protection business through captive reinsurance companies owned by our Payment Pro tection clients as well as third party reinsurance companies. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we seek to renew or purchase. Our clients may face difficulties forming, capitalizing and operating captive reinsurance companies, which could impact their ability to reinsure future business that we typically cede to them. States also could impose restrictions on these reinsurance arrangements, such as requiring the insurance company subsidiary to retain a minimum amount of underwriting risk, which could affect our profitability and results of operations. Reinsurance for certain types of catastrophes generally could become unavailable or prohibitively expensive for some of our businesses. Such changes could substantially increase our exposure to the risk of significant losses from natural or man-made catastrophes and could hinder our ability to write future business. Although the reinsurer is liable to the respective insurance subsidiary to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, the insurance company remains liable to the insured as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Ceded reinsurance arrangements, therefore, do not eliminate our insurance company obligation to pay claims. While the captive reinsurance companies owned by our clients are generally required to maintain trust accounts with sufficient assets to cover the reinsurance liabilities and we manage these trust accounts on behalf of these reinsurance companies, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and our clients may not be able to continue to operate their captive reinsurance companies. As a result, even where highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain or structure new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Due to the structure of some of our commissions, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness of some of our agents. We are subject to the credit risk of some of the agents with which we contract within our Payment Protection business. We typically advance agents' commissions as part of our product offerings. These advances are a percentage of the premium charged. If we over-advance such commissions to agents, they may not be a ble to fulfill their payback obligations, and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade in the ratings of our insurer subsidiaries may materially and adversely affect relationships with clients and adversely affect our results of operations. Claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are each a factor in establishing the competitive position of our insurance company subsidiaries. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things, materially and adversely affect relationships with clients, brokers and other distributors of our services and products, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations, and materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets. Rating agencies can be expected to continue to monitor our financial strength and claims paying ability, and no assurances can be given that future ratings downgrades will not occur, whether due to changes in our performance, changes in rating agencies' industry views or ratings methodologies, or a combination of such factors. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves that may materially and adversely reduce our business results of operations and financial condition. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate exposure for claims with respect to reported claims and incurred but not reported claims as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves, whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure. Instead, they represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of the ultimate settlement and administration costs for a claim or group of claims, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. The adequacy of reserves will be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by external factors such as changes in the economic cycle, unemployment, changes in the social perception of the value of work, emergi ng medical perceptions regarding physiological or psychological causes of disability, emerging health issues, new methods of treatment or accommodation, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes, as well as changes in claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the statement of income of the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves. In general, future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases were made. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and cash and may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability and significant interest rate fluctuations, or prolonged periods of low interest rates, could impair our profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We have a significant portion of our investments in cash and highly liquid short-term investments. Accordingly, during prolonged periods of declining or low market interest rates, such as those we have been experiencing since 2008, the interest we receive on such investments decreases and affects our profitability. Fixed maturity and short-term investments represented 97.8% of the fair value of our total investments as December 31, 2010. In addition, certain factors affecting our business, such as volatility of claims experience, could force us to liquidate securities prior to maturity, causing us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because all of our fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the market value of these securities are reflected on our balance sheet. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. We employ asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility and to increase the likelihood that cash flows are available to pay claims as they become due. Our asset/liability management strategies may fail to eliminate or reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility, and significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may 16 therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds and municipal bonds. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially and adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio and by other factors that may result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each o f these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. Further, the value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of a given issuer. As of December 31, 2010 fixed maturity securities represented 64.9% of the fair value of our total invested assets and cash. Our fixed maturity portfolio may include below investment grade securities (rated "BB" or lower by nationally recognized securities rating organizations). At December 31, 2010, we did not have any investments rated BB or lower. These investment generally provide higher expected returns, but present greater risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our BPO Business < div style="line-height:120%;text-align:left;font-size:10pt;">A significant portion of our BPO revenues are attributable to one client, and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with this client could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our BPO revenues from a limited number of clients. Specifically, in our BPO business, services provided to National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, PA ("NUFIC") accounted for 66.8%, 56.8%, and 52.4% of our BPO revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, respectively. The loss of business from any of our significant clients, particularly NUFIC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our BPO business will suffer if we are not able to price our outsourcing services appropriately, maintain asset utilization levels and control our costs. The profitability of our BPO business is largely a function of the efficiency with which we utilize our assets and the pricing that we are able to obtain for our services. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including hiring and assimilating new employees, forecasting demand for our services and our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other typically non-chargeable activities. The prices we ar e able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, competition, the introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors and general economic conditions. Our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain revenues over increasingly longer contract periods could negatively impact our margins and cash flows. Therefore, if we are unable to price appropriately or manage our asset utilization levels, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our BPO business is also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we increase the number of our employees and grow our business, we may not be able to manage the significantly larger workforce that may result and our profitability may not improve. We enter into fixed-term contracts and per-unit priced contracts with our BPO clients, and our failure to correctly price these contracts may negatively affect our profitability. The pricing of our services is usually included in contracts entered into with our clients, many of which are for terms of between one and three years. In certain cases, we have committed to pricing over this period with only limited sharing of risk regarding inflation. If we fail to estimate accurately future wage inflation rates or our costs, or if we fail to accurately estimate the productivity benefits we can achieve under a contract, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financia l condition. Some of our BPO contracts contain provisions which, if triggered, could result in the payment of penalties or lower future revenues and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our BPO contracts contain service level and performance provisions, including standards relating to the quality of our services, that would provide our clients with the right to terminate their contract if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements and in the case of our contract with NUFIC, require us to pay penalties. Our contract with NUFIC also provi des that, during the term of the contract and for 18 months thereafter, we may not develop or service products for NUFIC's competitors that are substantially similar to those we administer on behalf of NUFIC. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the payment of significant penalties by us to our clients which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Risks Related to our Wholesale Brokerage Business We may not be able to accurately forecast our commission revenues because our commissions depend on premiums charged by insurance companies, which historically have varied and, as a result, have been difficult to predict. Our Wholesale Brokerage business derives revenue principally from commissions paid by insurance companies, brokers and agents. Commissions are based upon a percentage of premiums paid by customers for insurance products. The amount of such commissions is therefore highly dependent on premium rates charged by insurance companies. We do not determine insurance premium rates. Premium rates are determined by insurance companies based on a fluctuating market and in many cases are regulated by the states in which they operate. We have generally encountered declining rates for property and casualty insurance since late 2006. Premium pricing within the commercial property and casualty insurance market in which we operate historically has been cyclical based on the underwriting capacity of the insurance carriers operating in this market and has been impacted by general economic conditions. In a period of decreasing insurance capacity, insurance carriers typically raise premium rates. This type of market frequently is referred to as a "hard" market. In a period of increasing insurance capacity, insurance carriers tend to reduce premium rates. This type of market frequently is referred to as a "soft" m arket, which the commercial P&C market has been experiencing since 2006. Because our commission rates usually are calculated as a percentage of the gross premium charged for the insurance products that we place, our revenues are affected by the pricing cycle of the market and the amount of risk that is insured. General economic conditions may impact the amount of risk that is insured by companies by affecting the value of the insured properties, the size of company workforces and the willingness of companies to self-insure certain risks to reduce insurance expenses. The frequency and severity of natural disasters and other catastrophic events can affect the timing, duration and extent of industry cycles for many of the product lines we distribute. It is very difficult to predict the severity, timing or duration of these cycles. The cyclical nature of premium pricing in the commercial property and casualty insurance market may make our results of operations volatile and unpredictable. To the extent that a n economic downturn and/or "soft" market persist for an extended period of time, our wholesale brokerage commissions and fees, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may experience reductions in the commission revenues we receive from risk-bearing insurance companies as these insurance companies seek to reduce their expenses by reducing commission rates payable to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, which may significantly affect the profitability of our Wholesale Brokerage business. As traditional risk-bearing insurance companies continue to outsource th e production of premium revenues to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, those insurance companies may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect the profitability of our Wholesale Brokerage business. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, we may not be able to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of the services of any of our highly qualified brokers could harm our business and operating results. Our future performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly qualified brokers, including brokers who work in the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. Competition for productive brokers is intense, and our inability to recruit or retain these brokers could harm our business and operating results. While many of our senior brokers own an equity interest in us and many have entered into employment agreements with us, these brokers may not serve the term of their employment agreements or renew their employment agreements upon expiration. Moreover, any of the brokers who leave our firm may not comply with the provisions of their employment agreements that preclude them from competing with us o r soliciting our customers and employees, or these provisions may not be enforceable under applicable law or sufficient to protect us from the loss of any business. In addition, we do not have employment, non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with all of our brokers. We may not be able to retain or replace the business generated by a broker who leaves our firm or replace that broker with an equally qualified broker who is acceptable to our clients. Because our Wholesale Brokerage business is highly concentrated in California, adverse economic conditions or regulatory changes in that state could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. A significant portion of our Wholesale Brokerage business is concentrated in California. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, $17.3 million and $15.9 million, respectively, or 74.3% and 70.5%, respectively, of Bliss & Glennon's wholesale brokerage commissions and fees that are attributable to a specific office were generated by its California offices. We believe the regulatory environment for insurance intermediaries in this state currently is no more restrictive than in other states. The insurance business is a state-regulated industry, and therefore, state legislatures may enact laws, and state insurance regulators may adopt regulations, that advers ely affect the profitability of insurance industries in their states. Because our 18 Wholesale Brokerage business is concentrated in a few states, we face greater exposure to unfavorable changes in regulatory conditions in those states than insurance intermediaries whose operations are more diversified through a greater number of states. In addition, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions, natural or other disasters, or other circumstances specific to or otherwise significantly impacting these states could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If insurance carriers begin to transact business without relying on wholesale insurance brokers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our Wholesale Brokerage business acts as an intermediary between retail agents and insurance carriers that, in some cases, will not transact business directly with retail insurance brokers and agents. If insurance carriers change the way they conduct business and begin to transact business with retail agents without including us or if retail agents are enabled to transact busin ess directly with insurance carriers as a result of changes in the surplus lines and specialty insurance markets, technological advancements or other factors, our role in the distribution of surplus lines and specialty insurance products could be eliminated or substantially reduced, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our growth strategy may involve opening or acquiring new offices and will involve hiring new brokers and underwriters for our Wholesale Brokerage business, which will require substantial investment by us and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows in a particular period.Our ability to grow our Wholesale Brokerage business organically depends in part on our ability to open or acquire new offices and recruit new brokers and underwriters. We may not be successful in any efforts to open new offices or hire new brokers or underwriters. The costs of opening a new office and hiring the necessary personnel to staff the office can be substantial, and we often are required to commit to multi-year, non-cancelable lease agreements. It has been our experience that our new Wholesale Brokerage offices may not achieve profitability on a stand-alone basis until they have been in operation for at least three years. In addition, we often hire new brokers and underwriters with the expectation that they will not become profitable until 12 months after they are hired. The cost of investing in new offices, brokers and underwriters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. Moreover, we may not be able to recover our investments or these offices, brokers and underwriters may not achieve profitability. Our financial results may be materially and adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophes. Portions of our Wholesale Brokerage business involve the placement of insurance policies that cover losses from unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other man-made or natural disasters, including acts of terrorism. The incidence and severity of these catastrophes in any given period are inherently unpredi ctable, and climate change could further exacerbate the severity and frequency of weather-related events. We are generally eligible to earn profit commissions, which are commissions we receive from carriers based upon the ultimate profitability of the business that we place with those carriers. The occurrence and severity of catastrophes could impair the amount of profit commissions that we receive in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our profit commission arrangements and other compensation arrangements. We derive a portion of our Wholesale Brokerage revenues from profit commissions based on the profitability of the insurance business we place with a carrier. Due to the inherent uncertainty of loss in our industry and changes in underwriting criteria due in part to the high loss ratios experienced by some carriers, we cannot predict the receipt of these profit commissions and the amount of such profit commissions may be less than we anticipated. Because profit commissions affect our revenues, any decrease in such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, other companies have been the subject of investigations regarding profit commission arrangements by various governmental authorities within the past seve ral years. Some of these investigations have focused on whether retail insurance brokers have adequately disclosed to their customers the receipt of profit commissions that are paid by insurance carriers to brokers based on the volume of business placed by the broker with the insurance carrier and other factors. We have not been subject to any investigations that are focused on our disclosure of profit commissions. The legislatures of various states may adopt new laws addressing profit commission arrangements, including laws limiting or prohibiting such arrangements, and adding new or different disclosure of such arrangements to insureds. Various state departments of insurance may also adopt new regulations addressing these matters. While we cannot predict the outcome of future governmental actions regarding commission payment practices or the responses by the market and government regulators, any unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. Our operating subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. Such regulation or compliance could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we sell, or the methods by which we sell our services and products, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals and to implement new regulations. We may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in any jurisdiction in which we operate. No assurances can be made that our businesses can continue to be conducted in each jurisdiction as they have been in the past. Such regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders. To that end, the laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to matters, such as: • licensing and authorizing companies and agents to transact business; • regulating capital and surplus and dividend requirements; • regulating underwriting limitations; • regulating the ability of companies to enter and exit markets; • imposing statutory accounting requirements and annual statement disclosures; • approving changes in control of insurance companies; • regulating premium rates, including the ability to increase or maintain premium rates; • regulating trade and claims practices; • regulating certain transactions between affiliates; • regulating reinsurance arrangements, including the balance sheet credit that may be taken by the ceding or direct insurer; • mandating certain insurance benefits; table>• regulating the content of disclosures to consumers; • regulating the type, amounts and valuation of investmen ts; • mandating assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and the ability to recover such assessments in the future through premium increases; • regulating market conduct and sales practices of insurers and agents, including compensation arrangements; and • regulating a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. Our non-insurance operations and certain aspects of our insurance operations are subject to various federal and state regulations, including state and federal consumer protection, privacy and other laws. An insurer's ability to write new business is partly a function of its statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of surplus as measured by Statutory Accounting Principles is considered important by insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, a downgrade by rating agencies or enforcement action by regulatory authorities. We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approval s and, despite our best efforts, our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant regulators' interpretation of such laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals or to limit or restrain operations in their jurisdiction. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from operating, limit some or all of our activities or financially penalize us. These types of actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to protect our clients' confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of reputation and customers, reduction in our profitability and subject us to fines, penalties and litigation. We retain confidential information in our information systems, and we are subject to a variety of privacy regulations and confidentiality obligations. For example, some of our activities are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We also have contractual obligations to protect confidential information we obtain from our clients. These obligations generally require us, in accordance with applicable laws, to protect such information to the same extent that we protect our own confidential information. We have implemented physical, administrative and logical security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and syst ems and protecting our, our clients' and their customers' confidential information and personally-identifiable information against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through the misdirection, theft or loss of data. Despite such efforts, we are subject to a breach of our security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or the information we are trying to 20 protect. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information systems could acce ss, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, most states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally-identifiable customer information. Any compromise of the security of our information systems that results in inappropriate disclosure of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity and damage to our reputation, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, loss of clients, significant civil and criminal liability and the incurrence of significant technical, legal and other expenses, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations in the future. If we were unable for any reason to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm us and our subsidiaries include, but are not limited to: • prohibiting retailers from providing debt cancellation policies; • prohibiting insurers from fronting captive reinsurance arrangements; < /td>• placing or reducing interest rate caps on the consumer finance products our clients offer; • limitations or imposed reductions on premium levels or the ability to raise premiums on existing policies; • increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements; • impositions of increased fines, ta xes or other penalties for improper licensing, the failure to promptly pay claims, however defined, or other regulatory violations; • increased licensing requirements; • restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of products; • new or different disclosure requirements on certain types of products; and • imposition of new or different requirements for coverage determinations. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the de velopment of new laws and regulations. Additionally, there have been attempts by the NAIC and several states to limit the use of discretionary clauses in policy forms. The elimination of discretionary clauses could increase our costs under our Payment Protection products. New interpretations of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new services and products and increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously. In addition, the NAIC's proposed expansion of the Market Conduct Annual Statement could increase the likelihood of examinations of insurance companies operating in niche markets. Court decisions that impact the insurance industry could result in the release of previously protected confidential and privileged information by departments of insurance, which could increase the risk of litigation. Traditionally, the U.S. federal government has not directly regulated the business of insurance. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In view of recent events involving certain financial institutions and the financial markets, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which provides for the enhanced federal supervision of financial institutions, including insurance companies in certain circumstances, and financial activities that represent a systemic risk to financial stability or the U.S. economy. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Insurance Office will be established within the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and its authority would likely extend to all lines of insurance that our insurance subsidiaries write. The director of the Federal Insurance Office will serve in an advisory capacity to the Financial Stability Oversight Council and have the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards by the Federal Reserve, if it is determined that financial distress at the company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. economy. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the preemption of state laws when inconsistent with certain international agreements and would streamline the regulation of reinsurance and surplus lines insurance. At this time, we ca nnot assess whether any other proposed legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank Act or any other legislation or changes could have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 21 Further, in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. For example, insurance regulators ma y choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. With respect to the property and casualty insurance policies our Payment Protection business underwrites, federal legislative proposals regarding National Catastrophe Insurance, if adopted, could reduce the business need for some of the related products we provide. Additionally, as the U.S. Congress continues to respond to the recent housing foreclosure crisis, it could enact legislation placing additional barriers on creditor-placed insurance. With regard to payment protection products, there are federal and state laws and regulations that govern the disclosures related to lenders' sales of those products. Our ability to administer those products on behalf of financial institutions is dependent upon their continued ability to sell those products. To the extent that federal or state laws or regulations change to restrict or prohibit the sale of these products, our administration services and fees revenues would be adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection within the Federal Reserve, which will add new regulatory oversight for these lender products. The full impact of this oversight cannot be determined until the Bureau has been established and implementing regulations are put in place. In recent years, several large organizations became subjects of intense public scrutiny due to high-profile data security breaches involving sensitive financial and health information. These events focused national attention on identity theft and the duty of organizations to notify impacted consumers in the event of a data security breach. Existing legislation in most states requires customer notification in the event of a data security breach. In addition, some states are adopting laws and regulations requiring minimum information security practices with respect to the collection and storage of personally-identifiable consumer data, and several bills before Congress contain provisions directed to national information security standards and breach notification requirements. Several significant legal, operational and reputational risks exist with regard to a data breach and customer notification. A breach of data secu rity requiring public notification can result in regulatory fines, penalties or sanctions, civil lawsuits, loss of reputation, loss of clients and reduction of our profitability. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. We may be materially and adversely affected by judgments, settlements, unanticipated costs or other effects of legal and administrative proceedings now pending or that may be instituted in the future, or from investigations by regulatory bodies or administrative agencies. From time to time, we have had inquiries from regulatory bodies and administrative agencies relating to the operation of our business. Such inquiries may result in various audits, reviews and investigations. An adverse outcome of any investigation by, or other inquiries from, such bodies or agencies could have a material adverse effect on us and result in the institution of administrative or civil proceedings, sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties, changes in personnel, and increased review and scrutiny of us by our clients, regulatory authorities, potential litigants, the media and others. In particular, our insurance-related operations are subject to comprehensive regulation and oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in which we do business. These insurance departments have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells and administers its products. Therefore, we may from time to time be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to: • disputes over coverage or claims adjudication; • disputes over claim payment amounts and compliance with individual state regulatory requirements; • disputes regarding sales practices, disclosures, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance, underwriting and compensation arrangements; • disputes with taxation and insurance authorities regarding our tax liabilities; • periodic examinations of compliance with applicabl e federal and state laws; and • industry-wide investigations regarding business practices including, but not limited to, the use of finite reinsurance and the marketing and refunding of insurance policies or certificates of insurance. The prevalence and outcomes of any such ac tions cannot be predicted, and such actions or any litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we were to experience difficulties with our relationship with a regulatory body in a given jurisdiction, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business in that jurisdiction. In addition, plaintiffs continue to bring new types of legal claims against insurance and related companies. Current and future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to these types of claims. Multi-party or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic and/or punitive damage awards. The success of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant damage award or a detrimental judicial ruling could have a material adverse 22 effect on our results of operations and financial condition. This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. We cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of liability or recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our businesses. We cannot predict at this time the effect that current litigation, investigations and regulatory activity will have on the industries in which we operate or our business. In light of the regulatory and judicial environments in which we operate, we will likely become subject to further investigations and lawsuits from time to time in the future. Our involvement in any investigations and lawsuits would cause us to incur legal and other costs and, if we were found to have violated any laws, we could be required to pay fines and damages, perhaps in material amounts. In addition, we could be materially and adversely affected by the negative publicity for the insurance and other financial services industries related to any such proceedings and by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that may result from any such proceedings. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may materially and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness and redeemable preferred stock of $82.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our annual debt service requirement was $8.5 million. Our debt service obligations vary annually based on our variable rate indebtedness and redeemable preferred stock. Although we believe that our current cash flow will be sufficient to cover our annual interest expense, any increase in our indebtedness or any decline in the amount of cash available increases the possibility that we could not pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. In addition, our indebted ness and any future indebtedness we may incur could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including financial and other restrictive covenants, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; tr>• make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebt edness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above-listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in interest rates could increase interest payable under our variable rate indebtedness and a portion of our redeemable preferred stock. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our variable rate indebtedness and a portion of our redeemable preferred stock, whi ch totaled $36.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we and they now face as a result of our indebtedness could intensify. Restrictive c ovenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies or undertake actions that may be in our best interests. The agreements governing our indebtedness include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • incur liens; • complete mergers, consolidations and dissolutions; 23 • sell certain of our assets that have been pledged as collateral; and • undergo a change in control. Our assets have been pledged to secure some of our existing indebtedness. Our revolving credit facility with SunTrust Bank is secured by substantially all of our property and as sets and property and assets owned by LOTS Intermediate Co. and certain of our subsidiaries that act as guarantors of our existing indebtedness. Such assets include the stock of LOTS Intermediate Co. and the right, title and interest of the borrowers and each guarantor in their respective material real estate property, fixtures, accounts, equipment, investment property, inventory, instruments, general intangibles, money, cash or cash equivalents, software and other assets and, in each case, the proceeds thereof, subject to certain exceptions. The total carrying value of all our assets was $541.5 million as of December 31, 2010. In the event of a default under our indebtedness, the lender could foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. A foreclosure on these assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property Our information systems may fail or their security may be compromised, which could damage our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our information systems and our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases and expand and upgrade our information systems. We rely on these systems throughout our businesses for a variety of functions, including marketing and selling our Payment Protection products, providing our BPO services, managing our operations, processing claims and applications, providing information to clients, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. The interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through the loss of stored data, programming errors, the breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment or software systems, telecommunications failure or damage caused by weather or natural disasters or any other significant disruptions could harm our business, ability to generate revenues, client relationships, c ompetitive position and reputation. Although we have additional data processing locations in Jacksonville, Florida and Atlanta, Georgia, disaster recovery procedures and insurance to protect against certain contingencies, such measures may not be effective or insurance may not continue to be available at reasonable prices, cover all such losses or be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of business that may result from any failure of our information systems. In addition, our information systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks which could disable our information systems and our security measures may not prevent such attacks. The failure of our systems as a result of any security breaches, intrusions or attacks could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our systems to keep up with technological advances could materially and adversely affect our business. Our businesses are dependent upon our ability to ensure that our information systems keep up with technological advances. Our ability to keep our systems integrated with those of our clients is critical to the success of our businesses. If we do not effectively maintain our systems and update them to address technological advancements, our relationships and ability to do business with our clients may be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses depend significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different inf ormation systems for our various businesses. We must commit significant resources to maintain and enhance existing information systems and develop new systems that allow us to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry, regulatory and legal standards and changing client preferences. A failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or a failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems and eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition or our ability to do business in particular jurisdictions. If we do not effectively maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including: • the inability to effectively market and price our services and products and make underwriting and reserving decisions; • the loss of existing clients; • difficulty attracting new clients; • regulatory problems, such as a failure to meet prompt payment obligations; • internal control problems; • exposure to litigation; • security breaches resulting in loss of data; and • increases in administrative expenses. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and our ability not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. The success of our business will depend, in part, on preserving our trade secrets, maintaining the security of our know-how and 24 data and operating without infringing upon patents and proprietary rights held by third parties. Failure to protect, monitor and control the use of our intellectual property rights could cause us to lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our brands, technology and data. These legal measures afford only limited protection, and competitors or others may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure. Our trademarks could be challenged, forcing us to re-brand our services or products, resulting in loss of brand recognition and requiring us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands or licensing. If we are found to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be subject to injunctive relief restricting our use of affected elements of intellectual property used in the business, or we may be required to, among other things, pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the rights to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms, or redesign our systems, which may not be feasible. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectua l property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. The intellectual property laws and other statutory and contractual arrangements we currently depend upon may not provide sufficient protection in the future to prevent the infringement, use or misappropriation of our trademarks, data, technology and other services and products. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property rights can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of resources with no assurance of success and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Prior to the Company's Initial Public Offering, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of a trading market on the New York Stock Exchange or how liquid that market may become. If an active trading market does not develop, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you purchase. As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. We have historically operated our business as a private company. Since the completion of our IPO we have been required to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified the Exchange Act. We are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, inclu ding the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, ("SOX") and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required to: • prepare and distribute periodic public reports and other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and New York Stock Exchange rules; • create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; • institute more comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance functions; • supplement our internal accounting and auditing function, including hiring additional staff with expertise in accounting and financial reporting for a public company; • enhance and formalize closing procedures at the end of our accounting periods; • enhance our internal audit and tax functions; • enhance our investor relations function; • establish new internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures; and • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above. Our internal control over financial reporting has not been tested and may not meet the standards required by Section 404 of SOX and the failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX could materially and adversely affect us. Prior to our IPO, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting may not currently meet the standards required by Section 404, standards that we will be required to meet in the course of preparing our 2011 financial statements. We are currently documenting our internal controls, and evaluating the design effectiveness of our processes and will begin evaluating the operating effectiveness of our controls in accordance with Section 404. 25&nbs p;We are in the early stages of addressing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We implemented several measures to improve our internal control over financial reporting, including (i) the hiring of a chief financial officer, and a vice president of internal audit and SOX compliance effective October 1, 2010, together with three additional audit professionals; (ii) increasing the headcount of qualified financial reporting personnel, including an SEC reporting manager, effective December 6, 2010; (iii) improving the capabilities of existing financial reporting personnel through training and education in the reporting requirements and deadlines set under U.S. GAAP, SEC rules and regulations and SOX and (iv) transitioning to an Oracle platform for our general ledger, purchasing and accounts payable systems. If, as a public company, we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. If we are unable to comply we would incur additional costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. Our principal stockholder has substantial control over us. Affiliates of Summit Partners collectively and beneficially own approximately 61.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a consequence, Summit Partners or its affiliates continue to be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant transaction. The interests of this stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of your investment to decline, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the initial public offering price. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • market conditions in the broader stock market; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • issuance of ne w or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; • investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we operate; • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; • additions or departures of key personnel; • regulatory or political developments; • litigation and governmental investigations; and • changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention o f our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2010 we had 20,256,735 shares of common stock outstanding. Our directors, executive officers and affiliates hold 12,903,019 of these shares, some of which are subject to 26 ve sting. After the lock-up agreements, entered into in connection with our IPO, have expired and holding periods subject to Rule 144 have elapsed, these shares will be eligible for sale in the public market. The market price of shares of our common stock may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, publish research or reports containing negative information about our business, adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Some provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a prohibition of action by written consent of stockholders unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our non-controlling stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change in control of us. State insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval, by the state insurance commissioner, of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having such substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state. We own, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of stock of insurance companies domiciled in Delaware, Georgia and Louisiana, and 85% of the shares of stock of an insurance company domiciled in Kentucky. Because any purchaser of shares of our common stock representing 10% or more of the voting power of our capital stock generally will be presumed to have acquired control of these insurance company subsidiaries, the insurance change in control laws of Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana and Kentucky would apply to such a transaction. In addition, the laws of many states contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company subsidiary that transacts business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change in control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the change in control. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, dete r or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our commo n stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 27 