Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information in this report, particularly the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in general economic conditions, and their impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could adversely impact our results of operations. Our performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. In recent years, consumer confidence and consumer spending deteriorated significantly, influenced by fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, changing fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment and consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and this could adversely impact our results of operations. In the event of another significant economic downturn, we could experience lower than expected net revenues, which could force us to delay or slow the implementation of our growth strategies and adversely impact our results of operations. Our inability to predict and respond in a timely manner to changes in consumer demand could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop appealing patterns and styles or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. Merchandise misjudgments could adversely impact our net revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose key management or design associates or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and product development teams. These executives and design associates have substantial experience in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key executives or design associates, and we do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on most of our key executives. The unexpected loss of services of certain of these individuals could have adverse impacts on our business and results of operations. As our business grows and we open new stores, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees and develop, train, and manage an increasing number of management-level, sales, and other employees. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain employees as needed in the future. Our business depends on a strong brand. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, then we may be unable to sell our products, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We believe that the brand image that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Vera Bradley brand is critical to maintaining and 16 expanding our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as product design, store operations, and community relations. These investments might not succeed. If we are unable to maintain or enhance our brand image, our results of operations would be adversely impacted. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies or manage our growing business, our future operating results could suffer. The success of our growth strategies, alone or collectively, will depend on various factors, including the appeal of our product designs, retail presentation to consumers, competitive conditions, and economic conditions. If we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of our strategies or initiatives, our future operating results could be adversely impacted. Successful implementation of our strategies will require us to manage our growth. To manage our growth effectively, we will need to continue to increase production while maintaining strict quality control. We also will need to continue to improve and invest in our systems and processes to keep pace with planned increases in demand. We could suffer a decline in sales if our products do not continue to meet our quality control standards or if we are unable to respond adequately to increases in customer demand for our products. We may not be able to successfully open and operate new stores as planned, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our continued growth will depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. We plan to open 14 to 16 new stores over the course of fiscal 2012 and 14 to 20 new stores during each of the following five fiscal years. Our ability to successfully open and operate new stores depends on many factors, including our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • hire, train, and retain store personnel and management; • assimilate new store personnel and management into our corporate culture; • source and manufacture inventory; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations and information technology systems. The success of new store openings may also be affected by our ability to initiate marketing efforts in advance of opening our first store in a particular region. Additionally, we will encounter pre-operating costs and we may encounter initial losses while new stores commence operations, which could strain our resources and adversely impact our results of operations. Our inability to sustain levels of comparable-store sales could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to sustain the levels of comparable-store sales that we have experienced in the recent past. If our future comparable-store sales decline or fail to meet market expectations, then the price of our common stock could decline. Also, the aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. Numerous factors influence comparable-store sales, including fashion trends, competition, national and regional economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, inventory shrinkage, marketing programs, and weather conditions. In addition, many companies with retail operations have been unable to sustain high levels of comparable-store sales during and after periods of substantial expansion. These factors may cause our comparable-store sales results to be lower in the future than in recent periods or lower than expectations, either of which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. 17 We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs. We do not own any real estate other than our warehouse and distribution facility. We lease our corporate headquarters, our other offices, and all of our store locations. We typically occupy our stores under operating leases with terms of ten years. We have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates in recent years due in part to the state of the economy and high vacancy rates within some shopping centers, but there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to negotiate such favorable terms. Some of our leases have early cancellation clauses, which permit the lease to be terminated by us or the landlord if certain sales levels are not met in specific periods or if the shopping center does not meet specified occupancy standards. In addition to requiring future minimum lease payments, some of our store leases provide for the payment of common area maintenance charges, real property insurance, and real estate taxes. Many of our lease agreements have escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. As we expand our store base, our lease expense and our cash outlays for rent under lease agreements will increase. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or industry; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Any of these consequences could place us at a disadvantage with respect to our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operating activities to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business. Additional sites that we lease may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases if we are unable to negotiate our current standard lease terms. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under the lease. Our inability to enter new leases or renew existing leases on acceptable terms or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close would, in any such case, affect us adversely. We operate in a competitive market. Our competitors might develop products more popular with consumers than our products. The market for handbags, accessories, and travel and leisure items is competitive. Our competitive challenges include: • attracting consumer traffic; • sourcing and manufacturing merchandise efficiently; • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in diverse market segments; • developing designs that appeal to a broad range of demographic and age segments; • developing high-quality products; and • establishing and maintaining good working relationships with our Indirect retailers. 18 In our Indirect business, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers, and distributors of handbags, accessories, and other products for the limited space available for the display of such products to the consumer. In our Direct business, we compete against other gift and specialty retailers, department stores, catalog retailers, and Internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of similar products. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business. We rely on various contract manufacturers to produce a significant majority of our products and generally do not have long-term contracts with our manufacturers. Disruptions in our contract manufacturers’ systems, losses of manufacturing certifications, or other actions by these manufacturers could increase our cost of sales, adversely affect our net revenues, and injure our reputation and customer relationships, thereby harming our business. Our various contract manufacturers produce a significant majority of our products. We generally do not enter into long-term formal written agreements with our manufacturers and instead transact business with each of them on an order-by-order basis. In the event of a disruption in our contract manufacturers’ systems, we may be unable to locate alternative manufacturers of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. Identifying a suitable manufacturer is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with the prospective manufacturer’s quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability, and labor practices. Any delay, interruption, or increased cost in the manufactured products that might occur for any reason, such as the lack of long-term contracts or regulatory requirements and the loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war, or threats of terrorism, could affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products, adversely affect our net revenues, increase our cost of sales, and hurt our results of operations. In addition, manufacturing disruption could injure our reputation and customer relationships, thereby harming our business. We rely on various suppliers to supply a significant majority of our raw materials. Disruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our net revenues. We generally do not enter into long-term formal written agreements with our suppliers and typically transact business with each of them on an order-by-order basis. As a result, we cannot assure that there will be no significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from our current sources or, in the event of a disruption, that we would be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. We rely on a single warehouse and distribution facility for all of the products we sell. Disruption to that facility could adversely impact our results of operations, and expansion of that facility could have unpredictable adverse effects. Our warehouse and distribution operations are currently concentrated in a single, company-owned distribution center in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Any significant disruption in the operation of the facility due to natural disaster or severe weather, or events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures, or other unforeseen causes, could devalue or damage a significant portion of our inventory and could adversely affect our product distribution and sales until such time as we could secure an alternative facility. If we encounter difficulties with our distribution facility or other problems or disasters arise, we cannot ensure that critical systems and operations will be restored in a timely manner or at all, and this would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our growth could require us to expand our current facility, which could affect us adversely in ways that we cannot predict. The cost of raw materials could increase our cost of sales and cause our results of operations to suffer. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing, and transportation, could have adverse impacts on our cost of 19 sales and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. In particular, fluctuations in the price of cotton, our primary raw material, could have an adverse impact on our cost of sales. In addition, because a key component of our quilted products is petroleum-based, the cost of oil affects the cost of our products. Upward movement in the price of oil in the global oil markets would also likely result in rising fuel and freight prices, which could increase our shipping costs. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher costs on to our customers. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing and manufacturing activities. We source our fabrics primarily from manufacturers in China and South Korea and outsource the production of a significant majority of our products to companies in Asia. We are subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing and manufacturing, including, but not limited to: • exchange rate fluctuations and trends; • availability of raw materials; • compliance with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations; • compliance with U.S. import and export laws and regulations; • disruption or delays in shipments; • loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; • product quality issues; • political unrest; and • natural disasters, acts of war and terrorism, changing macroeconomic trends, and other external factors over which we have no control. Significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we do not have complete oversight over our contract manufacturers. Violation of labor or other laws by those manufacturers, or the divergence of a contract manufacturer’s labor or other practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or in other markets in which we may in the future do business, could also draw negative publicity for us and our brand, diminishing the value of our brand and reducing demand for our products. Our ability to source our products at favorable prices, or at all, could be harmed, with adverse effects on our results of operations, if new trade restrictions are imposed or if existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. A significant majority of our products are currently manufactured for us in Asia. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations or may adversely adjust prevailing quotas, duties, or tariffs. Countries impose, modify, and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions, which make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, which include embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us or could require us to modify supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our results of operations. We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs, especially if the Employee Free Choice Act is adopted. Currently, none of our employees is represented by a union. Nevertheless, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to organize or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce 20 were to become unionized, our business would be exposed to work stoppages and slowdowns as a unionized business. If, in addition, the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly more favorable to union workers than our current pay-and-benefits arrangements, our costs would increase and our results of operations would suffer. The Employee Free Choice Act of 2007: H.R. 800, or EFCA, was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2007, and the same legislation has been re-introduced as H.R. 1409 and S. 560. President Obama and leaders of Congress have made public statements in support of this bill. Accordingly, the EFCA, or a variant of it, could become law. Enactment of the EFCA could have adverse effects on our business by making it easier for workers to obtain union representation and by increasing the penalties that employers may incur by engaging in labor practices that violate the National Labor Relations Act. Our results of operations are subject to quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including, among other things: • the timing of new store openings; • net revenues and profits contributed by new stores; • increases or decreases in comparable-store sales; • shifts in the timing of holidays, particularly in the United States and China; • changes in our merchandise mix; and • the timing of new pattern releases and new product introductions. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. We rely on independent transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments. We currently rely on independent transportation service providers for substantially all of our product shipments. Our utilization of these delivery services, or those of any other shipping companies that we may elect to use, is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the shipping company’s ability to provide delivery services sufficient to meet our shipping needs. If for any reason we were to change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that might adversely affect deliveries, and we would incur costs and expend resources in the course of making the change. Moreover, we might not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the service providers that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs. We also would face shipping and distribution risks and uncertainties associated with any expansion of our warehouse and distribution facility and related systems. We plan to use cash provided by operating activities to fund our expanding business and execute our growth strategies and may require additional capital, which may not be available to us. Our business relies on cash provided by operating activities as our primary source of liquidity. To support our growing business and execute our growth strategies, we will need significant amounts of cash from that source, including funds to pay our lease obligations, build out new store space, purchase inventory, pay personnel, invest further in our infrastructure and facilities, and pay for the increased costs associated with operating as a public 21 company. If our business does not generate cash flow from operating activities sufficient to fund these activities, and if sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from our existing revolving credit facility, we will need to seek additional capital, through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additional debt financing that we may undertake might impose upon us covenants that restrict our operations and strategic initiatives, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, make investments, and engage in merger, consolidation, and asset sale transactions. Equity financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our shareholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our equity securities may be lower than the price per share of our common stock in this offering. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences, or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, then we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, if any, which would inhibit our growth and could harm our business. We face various risks as an e-commerce retailer. Business risks relating to e-commerce sales include the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation, and taxation. We have contracted with several different companies to maintain and operate various aspects of our e-commerce business and are reliant on them and their ability to perform their tasks, as well as their operational, privacy, and security procedures and controls as they affect our business. If the independent contractors on which we rely fail to perform their tasks, we could incur liability or suffer damages to our reputation, or both. Our copyrights, trademarks and other proprietary rights could conflict with the rights of others, and we may be inhibited from selling some of our products. If we are unable to protect our copyrights and other proprietary rights, others may sell imitation brand products. We believe that our registered copyrights, registered and common law trademarks, and other proprietary rights have significant value and are critical to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products. Although we have not been inhibited from selling our products in connection with intellectual property disputes, we cannot assure you that obstacles will not arise as we expand our product line and extend our brand as well as the geographic scope of our sales and marketing. We also cannot assure you that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products or infringement of our rights by others. The legal regimes of some foreign countries, particularly China, may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by others in these countries. The loss of copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary rights could adversely impact our results of operations. Any litigation regarding our proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. Prior to the completion of the Reorganization, we were treated as an “S” Corporation under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code, and claims of taxing authorities related to our prior status as an “S” Corporation could harm us. Possible changes in tax laws also would affect our results. Upon the completion of the Reorganization, our “S” Corporation status terminated automatically and we became subject to increased federal and state income taxes. If the unaudited, open tax years in which we were an “S” Corporation are audited by the Internal Revenue Service, and we are determined not to have qualified for, or to have violated, our “S” Corporation status, we will be obligated to pay back taxes, interest, and penalties, and we do not have the right to reclaim tax distributions we have made to our shareholders during those periods. These amounts could include taxes on all of our taxable income while we were an “S” Corporation. Any such claims could result in additional costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, possible changes in federal, state, local, and non-U.S. tax laws bearing upon our revenues, income, property, or other aspects of our operations or business would, if enacted, affect our results of operations in ways and to a degree that we cannot currently predict. 22 Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Reporting obligations as a newly public company may place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes, and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a newly public company, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes Oxley”) so that our management can certify the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by the time our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 is due and thereafter. As a result, we may need to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems, and procedures, to incur substantial expenses to test our systems, and to hire additional qualified personnel. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes, and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance timely, which could cause a decline in our stock price and harm our ability to raise capital. Failure to accurately report our financial performance timely could also jeopardize our continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a result of our recent initial public offering, our costs have increased significantly and our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. We have historically operated our business as a private company. In October 2010, we completed an initial public offering. As a result, we are required to incur additional legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are obligated to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) quarterly and annual information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 and other sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, we are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market, and certain provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. We must be certain that we have the ability to institute and maintain a comprehensive compliance function; established internal policies; ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis; design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley; involve and retain outside counsel and accountants in connection with the above activities and maintain an investor relations function. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed increased regulation and disclosure and have required enhanced corporate governance practices of public companies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. These changes require a significant commitment of resources. We may not be successful in implementing or maintaining these requirements, any failure of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement or maintain the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to continue to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we do not implement or maintain such requirements in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The NASDAQ Stock Market. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and customers in our company and could materially adversely affect our business and cause our share price to fall. 23 Additional indebtedness incurred in connection with the Reorganization may decrease business flexibility and increase borrowing costs. On October 4, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that increased our available credit from $75 million to $125 million. Also in October 2010, in connection with the Reorganization, we increased the outstanding borrowings under our amended and restated credit agreement to fund a final “S” Corporation distribution to our then-shareholders. As of January 29, 2011, we had outstanding borrowings of $66.8 million under our amended and restated credit agreement, compared to $30.0 million outstanding under our former credit facility as of January 30, 2010. This increased indebtedness and resulting higher debt-to-equity ratio in comparison to our indebtedness and debt-to-equity ratio on a recent historical basis could have the effect, among other things, of: • reducing the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to adapt to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to companies that have less debt. Our Indirect business could suffer as a result of bankruptcies or operational or financial difficulties of our Indirect retailers. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our Indirect retailers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by a significant number of Indirect retailers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, operational or financial difficulties, reduced access to capital, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could adversely impact our results of operations. As a result of the recent unfavorable economic environment, we have experienced a softening of demand from a number of Indirect retailers. Although we recommend retail sale prices for our products to our Indirect retailers, we do not provide dealer allowances or other economic incentives to support those prices. Possible promotional pricing or discounting by Indirect retailers in response to softening retail demand could have a negative effect on our brand image and prestige, which might be difficult to counteract as the economy improves. We sell our Indirect merchandise primarily to specialty retail stores across the United States and extend trade credit based on an evaluation of each Indirect retailer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Perceived financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. Pending the resolution of a relationship with a financially troubled Indirect retailer, we might assume credit risk that we would otherwise avoid relating to our receivables from that customer. Inability to collect on accounts receivable from our Indirect retailers would adversely impact our results of operations. There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation or regulatory proceedings, which could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand image. As a growing company with expanding operations, we increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. Litigation and other claims may arise in the ordinary course of our business and include employee claims, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations, and slip and fall claims. Often these cases raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Litigation and other claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liability, as well as materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 