D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to develop and successfully market new products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate industry trends and identify, develop and market in a timely and cost-effective manner new and advanced products that meet our customers’ demand. Although our products typically have long lifespans, new products contribute materially to our net revenue. Since 2009, we have developed and brought to market eleven new products (four trauma products and seven spine products) that collectively accounted for 11.6% of our net revenue in 2009, 25.9% of our net revenue in 2010 and 28.2% of our net revenue 2011. We plan to launch seven new products by the end of 2012, and intend to expand our research and development capabilities to include joint implants and instruments, which we are developing as our third line of proprietary orthopedic implant products. We expect the orthopedic implant market to evolve toward newer and more advanced products, some of which we do not currently produce. Developing new products in a timely manner can be difficult, particularly because product designs can change with market and surgeons’ preferences. Our research and development efforts may not lead to new products that are commercially successful. We may also experience delays or be unsuccessful in any stage of product development, manufacturing, clinical trials or product registration. In addition, it typically takes from three to six months for our new products to gain market acceptance. We may not be able to successfully market our new products or our end customers may not be receptive to our new products. Our competitors’ product development capabilities may be more effective than ours, and their new products may reach the market before our products. Our competitors’ products may also be more effective and/or less expensive than our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors may result in price reductions on our products or reduced margins or loss of market share, and may lead to our products becoming obsolete or noncompetitive. Our new products may impact our gross margins depending on the level of market acceptance and pricing environment for each product. The success of any of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate industry trends and market demand; • optimize our manufacturing and procurement processes to predict and control costs; • manufacture and deliver new products in a timely manner; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • anticipate and compete effectively with other orthopedic implant developers, manufacturers and marketers; • price our products competitively; and • increase end customer awareness and acceptance of our new products. If we are unable to develop new products in a timely manner to meet market demand, or if there is insufficient demand for our new products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our net revenue from a limited number of products, and a reduction in demand for any of these products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We derive a significant portion of our net revenue from a limited number of products. Our key trauma product series—Synplate/Stanplate basic plate and screw system, Monoloc LCP/Stanloc LCP system and Orienail & NeoGen nail/LJ Nail nailing systems—accounted for 25.2%, 19.0%, and 7.7%, respectively, of our 6 Table of Contents net revenue in 2009, 22.3%, 23.7% and 8.7%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2010, and 16.0%, 27.6% and 9.6%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2011. Our key spine product series, our L8 pedicle fixation system, U-spine system and PolyNices system accounted for 9.2%, 4.5% and 4.5%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2009, 9.4%, 4.4% and 5.0%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2010, and 8.1%, 5.9% and 6.4%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2011. We expect a limited number of our products will account for a significant portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, continued market acceptance and popularity of these products remain critical to our success, and a reduction in demand due to, among other factors, the introduction of competing products by our competitors, the entry of new competitors, or end-customer dissatisfaction with the quality of these products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The orthopedic implant market is extremely competitive in China and worldwide and we expect competition to further intensify. Across all product lines and product types, we face direct competition both in China and internationally. We compete based on factors such as price, value, customer support, brand recognition, reputation, product functionality and design, reliability and quality. In the China market, our competitors include domestic companies, such as Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Limited, or Weigao, and Trauson Medical Instrument Co., Ltd. In addition, more leading international orthopedic implant manufacturers, such as Johnson & Johnson, have established production and research and development facilities in China, while other manufacturers have entered into cooperative arrangements with Chinese manufacturers, such as Medtronic’s relationship with Weigao. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing cost and pricing advantage. We expect to face increasingly direct competition from these large multinational manufacturers in all segments of the domestic market, especially as we implement our strategy to increase sales to Top Tier hospitals in China, since these players currently have a significant market share of the Top Tier hospitals for orthopedic implants. In addition, our products are generally covered under China’s medical insurance programs, whereby patients may be able to claim reimbursement for the costs of our products in an amount that depends on the type of surgery and device and policies of each locality. In general, reimbursement percentages tend to be higher for domestically manufactured products (such as ours) than for products manufactured by multinational companies and imported to China. If the Chinese government materially modifies or abolishes medical insurance reimbursement policy favorable to domestic manufacturers, our ability to compete with multinational companies would be materially and adversely affected. In international markets, our competitors include large multinational companies, such as Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Stryker, Smith & Nephew and Synthes, some of which have also been our major OEM customers. We also face competition in international markets from local companies in the markets in which we sell our products or desire to penetrate. In some emerging markets, larger competitors have established sizable local businesses, acquired local competitors or distributors or established local partnerships, which allow them to be more competitive in their pricing and distribution infrastructure. Our competitors may have: • greater financial and other resources; • a broader portfolio of products; • more products that have received regulatory approvals; • more experience in obtaining and maintaining approvals by the SFDA and other regulatory approvals for new products; • greater pricing flexibility; 7 Table of Contents • more extensive research and development and technical capabilities; • larger patent portfolios; • greater knowledge of local market conditions; • stronger brand recognition; • larger sales and network of distributors; • more established relationships with surgeons and hospitals; and • better support in terms of technical training or surgical instruments provided. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a “bundle” of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may develop products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that may lead to our products becoming obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. We depend on distributors for a substantial majority of our net revenue and our revenue growth. We may be unable to maintain or renew relationships with our distributors, replace underperforming distributors, or add new distributors to expand our network of distributors. We may also be unsuccessful in competing for desired distributors to effectively promote and sell our products. Any of these events would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend on distributors for a substantial majority of our net revenue. As of March 31, 2012, we had 335 domestic distributors that cover 30 of the 31 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions in China, and 41 distributors that sell our products in 29 countries across Asia, Europe, South America, Africa and Australia. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, we generated 76.5%, 75.2% and 73.9%, respectively, of our net revenue from sales to domestic distributors and 12.2%, 16.4% and 18.1%, respectively, of our net revenue from sales to international distributors. Our top ten distributors accounted for 24.2%, 31.5% and 33.8% of our net revenue in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. One, one and two distributors each accounted for more than 5% of our net revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our largest distributor accounted for 6.9%, 9.1% and 8.5% of our net revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We expect to continue to rely on managing, refining and adding distributors for our revenue growth. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our distributors. We typically negotiate and enter into distribution agreements for a term of one year or less. As our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew these agreements with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. We may also be unable to replace an underperforming distributor easily or at all. In addition, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and broader product selection than us. Our domestic distributors typically have the exclusive right to sell one or more of our products in specified territories or hospitals. However, we do not have exclusivity provisions in all of our contracts that prevent our distributors from selling the products of our competitors. Such distributors may dedicate more resources to our competing products and fail to adequately promote our products or provide proper services to our end-customers. Our competitors may prohibit their distributors from selling products that compete with their own products, 8 Table of Contents limiting our ability to expand our base of distributors. In addition, our competitors may offer better performance-based rebates and; therefore, provide more financial incentives for distributors to sell their products. Any disruption of our network of distributors, including our failure to renew our existing distribution agreements with our desired distributors, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to effectively manage our network of distributors, and actions taken by our distributors or sub-distributors could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and brand. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors and their sub-distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors or the sub-distributors to which they sell our products may violate our distribution agreements with them or the sales agreements among us, our distributors and the sub-distributors. Such violations may include, among other things: • failing to meet minimum sales targets or minimum payment terms for our products in accordance with relevant agreements; • selling our products outside their designated territories, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of our other distributors; • failing to maintain the requisite licenses or otherwise to comply with regulatory requirements when selling our products; • failing to provide proper training, complementary surgical instruments, and other services to our end customers; • failing to adequately promote our products; • selling products that compete with ours; or • violating applicable laws, including the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries, in the marketing and sale of our products. Failure to adequately manage our network of distributors, or non-compliance by distributors or sub-dealers with our distribution agreements or sales agreements could harm our corporate image and disrupt our sales. Furthermore, our distributors or sub-distributors may violate applicable laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices, including improper payments to hospitals and surgeons, with respect to their sales and marketing of our products. In such cases, we could be liable for actions taken by our distributors or sub-distributors and could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if our company becomes the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our distributors or sub-distributors. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable licenses or registrations for our products, or if such licenses or registrations are delayed, we will be unable to commercially manufacture, distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The orthopedic implant products we offer are subject to regulations in China and in other countries where we conduct business. For the manufacturing and sale of our products, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the SFDA or the competent regulatory authorities in other countries in which we sell our products. The processes for obtaining the initial regulatory licenses or registrations can be lengthy and expensive, and the results can be unpredictable. To obtain product registrations for Class II and Class III medical devices in China, we must conduct, at our own expense, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of our products in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, can take years and has an uncertain 9 Table of Contents outcome. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our products would prevent receipt of regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that product. As a result, we may be unable to manufacture, market and sell new products in a timely manner or at all due to our failure to obtain regulatory licenses or registrations. The process for renewing regulatory licenses or registrations does not require substantial costs; however, the process for obtaining approval can be lengthy. In China, medical devices are classified according to a catalog issued by the SFDA into three different categories, Class I, Class II and Class III, depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. The approval guidance for renewal applications relating to domestically manufactured Class III product registration certificates published by the SFDA states that it normally takes no more than 90 business days to review and approve the renewal applications subject to the sufficiency and satisfaction of application documents and no more than ten additional business days to deliver a written approval. However, such process usually takes a much longer time in practice. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that delay or prolong the approval of licenses or registrations for our existing or new products. For example, the SFDA solicited public opinion for proposed revisions of the Measures for the Administration of Medical Device Registration and the Regulation on Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices in 2007 and 2009. The draft revisions propose to introduce new requirements for medical device registrations, which could prolong the registration approval process. The SFDA may officially promulgate these revisions. If we are unable to obtain or maintain licenses or registrations needed to manufacture and market our existing or new products, or obtain or maintain such licenses or registrations in a timely fashion or at all, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. If the surgeon and hospital communities are not receptive to our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase our sales and profits. Although we sell a significant majority of our products to distributors, orthopedic surgeons and hospitals are the primary end customers of our products. Receptiveness to our products depends on educating surgeons and the hospital community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to our competitors’ products, as well as training surgeons and hospitals in the proper application of our products. If we, our distributors or our sub-distributors are not successful in educating the surgeon and hospital communities of the merits of our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase our sales and achieve and sustain growth or profitability. We believe recommendations and support for our products by influential surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from such surgeons, other surgeons and hospitals may not use our products. In addition, surgeons face a learning process to become proficient in the use of our products, and a significant role of our medical affairs department is to provide surgeons with adequate instruction and training in the use of our products. This training process may take longer than expected and may therefore affect our ability to increase sales. Following the completion of training, we rely on trained surgeons to advocate the benefits of our products in the marketplace. Convincing surgeons to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training remains challenging, and we cannot assure you we will be successful in these efforts. If surgeons are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 10 Table of Contents Lack of sufficient sophisticated orthopedic surgeons that can perform surgical operations in China may adversely affect our business. Sophisticated orthopedic surgeons that can perform surgical operations play a significant role in our business. We begin to involve surgeons in our product research and development stage, where we solicit feedback, proposals and suggestions with respect to our new products based on their clinical experience. We also rely on influential surgeons to endorse the quality of our products and promote their use among hospitals. Additionally, our sales volume is largely determined by the number of surgical operations performed by surgeons, and their performance is key to ensuring the proper implantation and function of our products in human bodies. However, a limited number of qualified surgeons in China have sufficient expertise and experience, and many of them are employed by Tier I hospitals located in large cities, where sales of our products remain relatively small. As a result, we only have limited access to sophisticated surgeons, which may adversely affect our research and development efforts and sales of our products. International expansion may be costly, time consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully expand internationally, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We plan to grow our international business by further penetrating our existing international markets and entering into new international markets. We intend to enter new international markets by cultivating new distributor relationships in selected regions. In expanding our business internationally, we have entered and intend to continue to enter markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may not be recognized. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. Furthermore, we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions in new markets that are different from those in our existing markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. If our expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our profitability and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to other risks associated with international operations, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • strained relationships between China and other countries where we sell our products; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • limited protection for intellectual property rights; • obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • poor financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; • export license requirements; • unauthorized re-export of our products; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • foreign exchange losses; and • inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our growth and our growth strategies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may suffer. Our growth strategies include expanding our product portfolio through research and development, strengthening our domestic network of distributors and marketing efforts, expanding our international business and pursuing selected acquisitions, partnerships, alliances and licensing opportunities. Pursuing our growth strategies has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on management resources. Managing our growth strategies will require us to, among other things: • expand our sales force and our network of distributors both domestically and internationally; • effectively enhance the management of our network of distributors; • enhance our research and development capabilities; • successfully hire and train new personnel; • control our costs and maintain sufficient liquidity; • prioritize our financial and management controls in an efficient and effective manner; • enhance awareness of our brand names and our market reputation; • exercise effective quality control; and • manage our various suppliers and leverage our purchasing power. Our direct sales model for Top Tier hospitals in China, consisting of a direct sales force and regional offices, as well as increased after-sales support, may not generate as much revenue as our current sales to third-party distributors or may not be successful as a result of the following factors, among others: • our lack of experience in selling products directly to hospitals; • our inability to compete effectively with other suppliers in Top Tier hospitals, many of which are multinational companies; • our failure to recruit and retain a sufficient number of skilled sales people; and • our failure to provide after-sales support satisfactory to hospitals and surgeons. Any inability to effectively manage our anticipated growth and growth strategies may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends significantly on the strength of our brands and reputation. Our failure to develop, maintain and enhance our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect the level of market recognition of, and trust in, our products. In China’s medical device market, brands and reputation are critical to the success of our new products and the continued popularity of our existing products. We believe that our “Kanghui” and “Libeier” brands are recognized among Chinese surgeons and hospitals for quality and reliability, allowing us to establish our company as a leading domestic orthopedic implants player in China. Our ability to develop, maintain and enhance the image and recognition of our brands depends largely on our ability to remain a leader in the orthopedic implants industry in China. Our brand promotion efforts may be expensive and may fail to effectively promote our brands or generate additional sales. Our brands, reputation and product sales could be harmed if, for example: • our products fail to meet expectations of surgeons, hospitals and end customers; • our products contain defects or fail; 12 Table of Contents • we provide poor or ineffective customer service; or • we are subject to product liability claims. Our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to maintain existing relationships with our OEM customers. In each of 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had eight, eleven and thirteen OEM customers, which accounted for 11.3%, 8.4% and 8.0% respectively, of our net revenue in those periods. Our OEM customers include some of the world’s leading orthopedic implant manufacturers. We have invested significant time and resources cultivating these relationships. However, we may be unable to supply products in the required quantity and quality to our OEM customers in the required timeframe. Our OEM customers may also develop their own solutions or adopt our competitors’ solutions for products that they currently purchase from us. For example, one of our former major OEM customers terminated its OEM business with us after it set up its own production base in China. Any failure to generate orders from our OEM customers or a decrease in sales to our OEM customers, as well as any adoption by our OEM customers of their own or our competitors’ products, could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, our OEM customers routinely audit and inspect our facilities, processes and practices to ensure that our manufacturing process and products meet their internal standards and applicable regulatory standards. To date, we have passed all such audits and inspections. However, we may not be able to do so in the future, and any failure to perform adequately under these audits or inspections to our OEM customers’ satisfaction could significantly harm our relationships with OEM customers and our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality and within the required time frame could be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacture and assemble our products at our facilities. The raw materials that we purchased from our top five suppliers accounted for 60.5%, 54.1% and 41.2% of our total raw materials costs in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We generally make purchases using purchase orders and we do not have long-term supply contracts. As a result, our suppliers may cease to provide raw materials, components or equipment to us with little or no advance notice. Furthermore, some of our raw materials may be short of supply due to limited manufacturing capabilities of our suppliers and strong market demand. Interruptions in raw material, component or equipment supplies could delay our manufacturing processes. We also may be unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner. Such circumstances could harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins and cause us to lose market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in the market price of our raw materials and components may materially and adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw materials and components. Some raw materials and components, especially titanium and titanium alloy, have been susceptible to fluctuations in price and availability. Significant increases in raw material and component prices have a direct and negative impact on our gross margins. Ultimately, we may need to raise our product prices to recover the higher raw material and component costs and maintain our gross margins, which may lead to lower demand for our products. Since we are generally unable to pass through increases in our raw materials costs to our customers, our failure to successfully pass such price increases may materially and adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain all necessary approvals for our new production facilities, and may be unable to expand our manufacturing capacity and ramp up our operations as anticipated, which could result in administrative punishment, material delay, increased costs and lost business opportunities. We are engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program for new manufacturing facilities. Our new production facilities in Changzhou commenced its trial operation in February 2012. In addition, our new facility in Beijing, indirectly owned by Mr. Qian Guo, vice president of Beijing Libeier Biology Engineering Research Institute Co., Ltd., or Beijing Libeier, and Ms. Hongxin Nie, our director and vice president of Beijing Libeier, was completed and commenced operation in December 2011. The construction and completion of these new facilities involve regulatory approvals and reviews by various authorities in China, including, but not limited to, urban planning and construction and environmental protection authorities. Furthermore, we need to obtain manufacturing approval from the SFDA or its provincial counterpart before we can commence production at these new facilities and all the relevant product registration for medical device products to be manufactured in these new facilities need to be re-registered due to its relocation of the manufacturing facility. We have already obtained SFDA approvals for production on these two new facilities. Currently, the facility in Changzhou is under acceptance procedures and we will further apply for necessary governmental approvals, licenses and permits related thereto. We are also applying for approval from environmental protection authority on final completion of the new facility in Beijing and conducting re-registration for production registrations of all Beijing Libeier’s products for relocation of its manufacturing facility. As we will change Beijing Libeier’s registered domicile to such new facility in Beijing, we are in the process of making relevant registration with the governmental authority therefor. We may not be able to obtain all the required permits or licenses for our new facilities and our business operations on these new facilities may be affected if any of the required permits or licenses is not obtained in a timely manner or at all. In addition, construction of the new facilities may not be completed on the anticipated timetable or within budget. Also, we may not be able to fully utilize the manufacturing capacity once our new facilities in Changzhou and Beijing. Any failure to obtain the required permits or licenses or approvals from governmental authorities and any failure to remedy such non-compliance in a timely manner may subject us to severe administrative penalties such as fines, suspension of the manufacturing activities or revocation of our business license. Any inability or material delay in bringing the facilities on-line or commence operations, or any substantial increase in costs to complete the facilities or ramp up operations, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and result in lost business opportunities. Our products may be subject to decreasing pricing trends and reduced margins. If we are unable to successfully replace these products subject to those trends with newer, more profitable products, our sales and results of operations could suffer. Our products may be subject to price declines over time due to competitive forces, while manufacturing and material costs may remain constant or increase. We believe growing pricing pressure may arise in the future due to competition. As our products enter into a later stage in their lifecycles, the gross margins of those products may decrease. Our profitability depends on our ability to successfully control costs during the manufacturing process by increasing the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, reduce raw material consumption and increase production yields. In addition, changes in our product mix may negatively affect our overall gross margins. If we are unable to successfully design, manufacture and market new products, which typically generate higher gross margins, or if we fail to effectively increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes or control manufacturing costs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. If we fail to comply with the SFDA’s quality system regulations, our manufacturing process could be delayed and we may be subject to enforcement action by the SFDA. We are required to comply with the SFDA’s quality system regulations, which cover our manufacturing facilities and equipment, as well as the methods and documentation of production, control, quality assurance, labeling and packaging of our products. The SFDA enforces the quality system regulations through document review and on-site inspections. If we fail a quality system review or inspection or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, our manufacturing process could be delayed or suspended. We may also be subject to fines, or fail to obtain registration for our new products, or our medical device manufacturing license could be revoked. 14 Table of Contents Product returns could exceed our historical return rate and harm our results of operations. We are not obligated under our distribution agreements to accept product returns by our distributors absent any quality problems or obvious design defects. In practice, we offer our distributors product return privileges subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set by us. In the event of a product return claim, our distributor must submit an application to us and our management then reviews the application and decides whether to approve the product return based on a number of factors, including the passage of time since sale, the condition of the product, our ability to sell the product in the market, and the volume and magnitude of other returns from the same distributor. We also expect distributors to return their products in stock to us in the event we need to recall defective products. We maintain a reserve for estimated sales returns. Historically, the return rate has generally been approximately 3-5% of our net revenue each year. Actual product returns in excess of our historical return rate and our reserve would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on our limited manufacturing and storage facilities for our products. Any disruption to our current facilities could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation. We manufacture and store all of our products, and conduct our research and development activities, at our facilities in Changzhou, Beijing and Shanghai. Since we do not maintain other back-up facilities, we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. We do not maintain property insurance and even if we obtained property insurance, our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. Any failure by our large customers to make contracted payments to us or any disputes over, or significant delays in receiving, such payments could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. We typically receive payments for our products from our customers after delivery. The average turnover for our accounts receivable, which we define as the average net accounts receivable balance during the period divided by net revenue, was 83, 77 and 80 days for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. A significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Our five largest outstanding accounts receivable from domestic distributors accounted for 17.2%, 29.0% and 21.1% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, we have engaged Shanghai Medical Instruments Import and Export Company, or Shanghai Medical, a Chinese import and export company, in our international sales to help us process export formalities and customs clearance. Accounts receivable from international distributors that arose through Shanghai Medical accounted for 14.3%, 15.4% and 34.0% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Shanghai Medical is not legally responsible for payment of accounts receivable derived from our sales to international distributors. Any failure by our customers to pay us our contracted price, or any disputes over or significant delays in receiving such payments from our customers could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. Our advance payments to our suppliers expose us to the credit risk of such suppliers, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are required under a small portion of our raw material and component supply contracts to make prepayments equaling approximately 30% to 50% of the total purchase price before delivery. Separately, we are generally required to post a bond of approximately 30% of the total purchase price for purchase of manufacturing equipment. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the prepayment and bond made to our suppliers amounted 15 Table of Contents to RMB1.7 million, RMB6.4 million and RMB7.3 million, respectively. Such prepayments or bonds are interest-free and non-refundable and we make such prepayments or post such bonds without receiving any collateral. As a result, our claims for such advance payments would rank only as unsecured claims, exposing us to the credit risks of the suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. We may not be able to recover such advance payments and would suffer losses should the suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations. Accordingly, defaults by our suppliers may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We face risks associated with inventories. We maintain a relatively high level of inventories of raw materials, works-in-progress and finished goods. Our net inventory balances as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 were RMB75.7 million, RMB86.3 million and RMB110.9 million, respectively. Our number of inventory days, which we define as the average net inventory balances during the period divided by cost of revenue and multiplied by the number of days in the period, decreased from 425 days in 2009 to 409 days in 2010 and 389 days in 2011. We may suffer from write-downs of our raw materials and work-in-progress inventories in case their fair market price goes down. In addition, an unexpected change in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in selling price, or default or loss of a customer, could materially and adversely affect the realizable value of our inventories of finished goods. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our past and potential future acquisitions or investments or be able to integrate any acquired employees, businesses or products, which in turn may negatively affect their performance and respective contributions to our results of operations. In March 2011, we acquired 60% of the equity interest in Beijing Wei Rui Li Medical Device Co., Ltd., or Wei Rui Li, a provider of approved hip and knee systems in China. Pursuant to the share purchase agreement, we have the option to acquire additional equity interest in Wei Rui Li at a pre-determined price subject to the conditions set out in the agreement. We are still integrating the business and resources of Wei Rui Li into ours. Although we have devoted significant managerial attention and time and resources to the overall integration of Wei Rui Li, we may not successfully integrate Wei Rui Li, or be able to achieve the benefits of acquisition as originally expected. In addition, we intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of companies, products and technologies that will complement our efforts to grow our business. Any future acquisitions or investments may expose us to potential risks, including, among other things: • unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, such as hidden liabilities and legal contingencies; • distraction of management’s attention from normal operations during the acquisition and integration process; • failure to effectively integrate acquired assets and talent into our corporate structure and culture; • diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business; • failure to realize synergies expected from acquisitions or business partnerships; and • recognition of impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions. We may also fail to identify or secure suitable acquisition or investment opportunities, or our competitors may capitalize on such opportunities before we do. Moreover, identifying such opportunities could demand substantial management time and resources, and negotiating and financing such acquisitions or investments could 16 Table of Contents involve significant costs and uncertainties. If we fail to successfully source, execute and integrate acquisitions or investments, our overall growth could be impaired, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our earnings could be adversely affected if we recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets relating to our acquisition of Beijing Libeier and Wei Rui Li. In connection with our acquisition of Beijing Libeier in July 2008, we recorded goodwill of RMB131.0 million, RMB131.5 million and RMB131.5 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In connection with our acquisition of Wei Rui Li in March 2011, we recorded goodwill of RMB23.8 million in 2011. We also recorded intangible assets of RMB50.3 million, RMB47.0 million and RMB62.0 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We amortize intangible assets related to such acquisition on a straight-line basis over their economic lives and test for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an intangible asset may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment as of each year end or more frequently if an event or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action or unanticipated competition. We did not recognize any impairment losses on the recorded goodwill and intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Beijing Libeier in 2010 or 2011, and we did not recognize any impairment losses on the recorded goodwill and intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Wei Rui Li in 2011 However, we may recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets in the future and that impairment could result in a charge to our reported results of operations and negatively affect our earnings. We depend on our key personnel, and losing their services would severely disrupt our business. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our key executives and employees. In particular, we are highly dependent on Mr. Yikang Jiang, our founder and chairman, Mr. Libo Yang, our chief executive officer, Mr. Weidong Shan and Mr. Zhimin Wang, both vice presidents of Changzhou Kanghui Medical Innovation Co., Ltd., or Changzhou Kanghui, and Ms. Junwen Wang, our chief financial officer, to manage our business and operations, and on our other key research and development and sales employees, such as Mr. Qian Guo and Ms. Hongxin Nie, vice presidents in charge of managing Beijing Libeier, for the operation of our business. We do not maintain key man insurance. If we lose the services of any key senior management member or employee, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. We entered into non-compete agreements with all of our key employees. Furthermore, as we expect to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to attract and retain more experienced management, key research and development personnel and salespeople. Competition for personnel in the medical technology field is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates in China, particularly in Changzhou, is limited. We compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other medical device companies, universities, hospitals and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We previously awarded share-based compensation to our employees, some of which has not yet vested. Such retention awards may cease to be effective to retain our current employees once the shares vest. We may need to increase our total compensation costs to attract and retain experienced personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and growth. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. We have developed a substantial portfolio of intellectual property rights in China to protect the technologies, inventions and improvements significant to our business in China. As of March 31, 2012, we had received a total of 37 issued patents in China, including eight invention patents, 27 utility model patents and two 17 Table of Contents design patents, and were exclusively licensed to use two utility model patents owned by Mr. Qian Guo for a period of five years and have eleven patent application pending approval by relevant Chinese regulatory authorities. In order to protect our other intellectual property rights, we have filed for trademark protection for our brand names “Kanghui” and “Libeier” and associated logos that we use to market our products, and will continue to follow our brand management policy to build our brand name recognition. Seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have, and may develop, products that compete directly with our products despite our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property strategy is to seek protection in China but not overseas, balancing the costs and benefits of doing so. Therefore, we have not filed for patent protection in countries other than China based on our assessment of risks of third-party infringement of our intellectual property in those markets and the costs of obtaining patent protection. In the future, to the extent our international sales grow in relative importance, we may re-evaluate this strategy in certain target markets with respect to our products. While we are precluded from seeking patent protection for the products that we market overseas, if we choose to change our strategy to seek patent protection, we expect to do so with respect to our new products to the extent they contain patentable features, which will not be precluded as a result of our current decision not to seek patent protection overseas for our current products. Although we have not encountered any third-party infringement of our intellectual property in China, we may encounter such infringement in the future. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective, mainly due to lack of procedural rules for discovery of evidence, low damage awards and low rates of criminal penalties against intellectual property right infringements. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. See “Regulation—Regulation on Intellectual Property Rights”. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to commence litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation vary, and outcomes are unpredictable. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties that, if successful, could disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Companies in the orthopedic medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third-party intellectual property rights. As we increase our product sales internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make or sell our products in China and internationally. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to pay damages, seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign our products or become subject to 18 Table of Contents injunctions, each of which could prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. We regard our brand names as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our brand names. Despite these precautions, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand names without authorization. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to protect our brand names. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. Future litigation could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There may be corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in China and other countries, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors engage in such practices. There may be corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in China or other countries. For example, in order to secure more orders, our competitors or their respective agents or distributors may engage in corrupt practices in order to influence surgeons, hospital personnel or other decision-makers in violation of the anti-corruption laws of China, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, or other applicable laws of other countries. As competition persists and intensifies in our industry, we may lose potential customers or sales to the extent that our competitors engage in such practices or other illegal activities. We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate including, anti-corruption laws of China and the FCPA. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anticorruption laws. Although we are in the process of implementing policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, distributors and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees, distributors and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. We operate in the medical device industry in China and other jurisdictions, many of which pose elevated risks of anti-corruption violations, and generally sell our products domestically and internationally through distributors to our end customers, including state or-government-owned hospitals. This puts us and our distributors in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We hired a professional consulting firm to assist us in such efforts. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2011. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have limited insurance coverage, and any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We do not maintain any insurance for our properties other than product liability insurance and the insurance for our products in delivery. Damage to, or the loss of, our properties due to natural disasters, such as fires, floods or earthquakes, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to purchase such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or business disruption insurance. Any business disruption could result in substantial expenses and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to product liability exposure. Any product liability claims or potential safety-related regulatory actions could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We design, manufacture and sell orthopedic implants, mainly trauma and spine implant products, and associated instruments, used in the surgical treatment of patients. Our trauma and spine implant products that are classified as Class III products generally pose higher risk to the human body. Accordingly, many of our products expose us to potential product liability claims if their use causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claim or regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. Although we do not 20 Table of Contents deal directly with patients, we are generally required to reimburse our distributors or OEM customers in part or in whole for any damages or losses arising from product liability claims due to the defect of our products. From time to time, we have been named as a defendant or a participant in product liability lawsuits. We maintain limited liability insurance to cover product liability claims arising from the use of our products sold in China by one of our subsidiaries, Changzhou Kanghui. Our insurance coverage, however, may not be sufficient to cover any claim for product liability. As a result, future liability claims could be excluded or could exceed the coverage limits of our policy. Our other PRC operating subsidiaries, Beijing Libeier and Wei Rui Li, do not have any product liability insurance. We currently do not maintain any insurance policies that cover potential product liability claims for products sold in international markets. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in many countries, we may be unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could cause us to incur significant expenses, result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. If authorities in the countries where we sell our products decide that these products fail to conform to applicable quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties or an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to manufacture or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. We rely on our information technology systems for order fulfillment and other functions and to maintain our research and development data. If our information technology systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes, and to maintain our research and development data. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales and increased overhead costs, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power loss; and • computer systems, or Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, we typically have slightly lower sales during the 21 Table of Contents first quarters of each year. We believe that our weaker first quarter performance has been largely due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, when doctors generally perform fewer surgical operations. Our relatively stronger performance in the fourth quarter has been largely due to the increasing demand for surgical operations due to weather-related accidents. Other factors that may affect our financial results include, among others: • global economic conditions; • our ability to attract and retain distributors; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • variations in customer purchasing cycles; • our sales and delivery cycle length; • the timing of tax benefits we receive during the year; • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • our ability to expand into and further penetrate international markets; • fluctuations in raw material, component and manufacturing equipment prices; • the timing of receipt of government incentives or rebates; • changes in the industry operating environment; and • changes in government policies or regulations, including new product approval procedures, or their enforcement. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our future results. Fluctuations in exchange rates have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, foreign exchange losses and to adversely impact our profitability. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, we generated 13.9%, 19.0% and 20.7% of our net revenue from sales denominated in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our operating costs and expenses were denominated in Renminbi. We are generally required to bear foreign exchange losses in our international sales. From July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2011, the Renminbi appreciated 24.0% against the U.S. dollar. Although the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day, and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. According to a public announcement issued by the People’s Bank of China and effective from April 16, 2012, the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to fluctuate within a range of no more than 1% per day. Moreover, Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we pay. Limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We did not enter into any forward contracts to hedge our exposure to Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. 22 Table of Contents Our principal shareholders, directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our shares, allowing them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding shares own 50.5% of our total issued and outstanding shares as of the date of this annual report. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and principal shareholders have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction, and their interests may not align with the interests of our other shareholders. These shareholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. Furthermore, our future capital needs may require us to sell additional equity or debt securities that may dilute our shareholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. For us to grow, remain competitive, develop new products, expand our network of distributors or make future acquisitions or investments, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could dilute our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may continue to engage in certain sales of products to third parties for end-use by countries, governments, entities, or persons targeted by United States economic sanctions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. U.S. persons are also generally prohibited from facilitating such activities or transactions. We will not use any proceeds, directly or indirectly, from sales of our ADSs, to fund any activities or business with any country, government, entity or individual that is the subject or target of any U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We sell our products in international markets through independent non-U.S. distributors that are partially responsible for interacting with the end-customers of our products. Some of our international distributors are located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions, such as Cuba, Iran, Syria, Sudan and Lebanon. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, our indirect sales to countries subject to U.S. sanctions, which included Iran, Syria, Sudan, Cuba and Lebanon, accounted for 2.3%, 3.0%, and 0.8%, respectively, of our total net revenue in those periods. We cannot assure you that we will not have any sales of our products directly or indirectly to targets of U.S. sanctions in the future. If such transactions occur, our reputation could be adversely 23 Table of Contents affected, some of our U.S. investors may elect or be required to sell their interests in our company, and some U.S. investors may forego the purchase of our ADSs, all of which could materially and adversely affect the value of our ADSs and your investment in us. Export control and embargo laws may preclude us from selling our products in international markets. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, we derived 23.6%, 24.8%, and 26.1% of our net revenue from our sales to foreign countries. Some of our international distributors are located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions such as Cuba, Iran, Syria, Sudan and Lebanon. As a result, we may be subject to U.S. export control, anti-boycott and embargo statutes and regulations, which are designed to prevent U.S. persons from transacting business with companies and individuals identified by the federal government as prohibited countries or parties. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to fines, enforcement actions and/or adversely affect our reputation and the value of our ADSs. We may also have to stop or terminate business transactions in some international markets, which will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we grant employee share options, restricted shares or other equity incentives in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We have adopted a 2006 share incentive plan, 2008 share incentive plan, 2009 share incentive plan and 2010 share incentive plan. We are required to account for share-based compensation in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, topic 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation, which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other equity incentives to employees based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted options to purchase total of 24,993,520 ordinary shares under our share incentive plans. As a result, we incurred share-based compensation expense of RMB10.3 million, RMB8.0 million and RMB7.4 million in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. If we grant more options, restricted shares or other equity incentives, we could incur significant compensation charges and our results of operations could be adversely affected. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in this annual report and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for a more detailed presentation of accounting for our share-based compensation plans. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our second amended and restated articles of association, or New Articles, limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or to make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Our New Articles also provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors are divided into three classes, designated as Class A, consisting of three directors, Class B, consisting of two directors, and Class C, 24 Table of Contents consisting of two directors, with no more than one class eligible for reelection at any annual shareholder meeting. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholder meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature and composition of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on assumptions as to our projections of the value of our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs during the year and our use of the proceeds from the initial public offering of our ADSs and of the other cash that we will hold and generate in the ordinary course of our business throughout taxable year 2011, we do not expect to be a PFIC for the taxable year 2011. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2011 or any future taxable year as PFIC status is tested each taxable year and depends on the composition of our assets and income in such taxable year. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on an quarterly value of the assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. In determining the average percentage value of our gross assets, the aggregate value of our assets will generally be deemed to be equal to our market capitalization (determined by the sum of the aggregate value of our outstanding equity) plus our liabilities. Therefore, a drop in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares would cause a reduction in the value of our non-passive assets for purposes of the asset test. Accordingly, we would likely become a PFIC if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares, and you are a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”), you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions we make and on any gain recognized on the disposition or deemed disposition of your ADSs or ordinary shares in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. Moreover, if we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirement. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, see “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Companies Law (as amended) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman 25 Table of Contents Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in response to actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. Shareholders may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. It may also be difficult for shareholders to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. Furthermore, such Cayman Islands or PRC courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. See “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” Risks Relating to Our Industry We operate in a heavily regulated industry. Medical devices are subject to laws and regulations issued by a number of government agencies in China and internationally. Such laws and regulations relate to the manufacturing, clinical trial, registration, distribution and pricing of medical devices. See “Regulation” for a discussion of the regulations applicable to us and our business. We must comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, we are or may become subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulations by various authorities with regard to compliance with such laws and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, regulations and rules are subject to regular modification and change. From time to time, various laws, regulations and rules are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations or could substantially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to develop or operate our business and our growth prospects. It is impossible to predict the competitive impact that any such change would have on the medical device industry where we operate in general or on our business. If we or our distributors fail to comply with such applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to make significant changes to our business or suffer fines or penalties, including the potential loss of our business licenses. Aspects of the impending healthcare reform in China may adversely affect our business. The Chinese government has approved in principle a healthcare reform plan to address the affordability of healthcare services, the rural healthcare system and healthcare service quality in China. The healthcare reform covers various sectors of medical services, including the use of implantable medical devices, such as our products. In particular, the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, drafted the Opinions on Strengthening the Monitoring and Administration of the Pricing of Implantable Medical Device, or the Pricing Opinions, published in July 2006. The Pricing Opinions proposed to fix a maximum premium range from 25% to 50% on the price difference between the ex-factory price offered by manufacturers to distributors and the 26 Table of Contents ultimate retail price offered by hospitals to patients for the implantable medical devices on the NDRC’s monitoring list, and to require manufacturers or importers of such implantable medical devices to report their price offered to distributors with the relevant pricing authority in China and clarify the reason for subsequent price increases upon the request of such pricing authority. The Pricing Opinions are still pending and have not been promulgated to date. The ultimate retail prices of our products to patients can reach four to five times our ex-factory price, depending on several factors, such as the bidding price, the pricing strategy of each distributor, the different regions and hospitals in which the products are sold, the number of intermediaries, such as sub-dealers, and whether the products are spine or trauma, or new models or older generation products. The Chinese government continued to express an interest in the pricing of implantable medical devices in the Implementation Plan for the Recent Priorities of the Health Care System Reform (2009-2011) issued by the State Council on March 18, 2009, where the Chinese government proposes to regulate the use of implantable medical devices by public hospitals. In addition, according to the Opinion on the Reform of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Service Pricing Structures, issued on November 9, 2009 by the NDRC, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security are proposing to regulate the price of implantable medical devices by restricting margins in distribution channels and publishing market price data. Although no detailed policies or rules have been issued by the NDRC or other Chinese government authorities to date, the Chinese government may announce further steps towards regulation of implantable medical devices or implement the proposals described above. If that happens, we may incur additional expenses or costs to comply with the new requirements. Moreover, we may not be able to find desired distributors interested in selling our products due to decreased distributor margins, and we may be subject to significant pricing pressure on our products as well as pressure on our gross margin. If we fail to comply with the proposed new requirements when they become effective, we may be subject to penalties such as a fine up to the amount equal to five times the illegal income or up to RMB1,000,000, if no illegal income is generated, confiscation of illegal income and, under severe cases, an order to suspend operations for rectification and for those who seek excessive profits by violating pricing laws and regulations, revocation of their business licenses by the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. All of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If the government, public insurers or third-party payers do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products, our net revenue could be adversely affected. Sales of medical devices, such as our products, largely depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from government, public insurers or third-party payers. Surgeons and patients generally rely on these sources to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the use of the medical devices and procedures performed with these devices. Surgeons and patients are unlikely to use certain medical devices if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of their use in surgical procedures. In 2009, 27.5% of total health expenditures in China were sourced from direct payments by the government, and 35.1% of total health expenditures were sourced from government-directed public medical insurance schemes, commercial insurance plans and employers, according to the Ministry of Health of China. Urban residents in China can be covered by one of two urban public medical insurance schemes and rural residents can be covered under a rural healthcare insurance program launched in 2003. See “Regulation—Regulation on Medical Insurance Coverage” for more information. If national or provincial authorities in China decide to reduce the coverage or reimbursement levels for use of our products, patients may opt for or be forced to resort to other products, materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Outside of China, reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take substantial time. Many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments 27 Table of Contents in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Reimbursement in international markets may require us to undertake country-specific reimbursement activities, including additional clinical studies, which could be time consuming and expensive and may not yield acceptable reimbursement rates. Furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to contain these costs. Legislators, regulators and third-party payers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. These cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount which third-party payers may be willing to pay for medical devices. The continuing efforts of third-party payers, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside or outside China, to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers’ ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payers. The cost containment measures both in China and internationally could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and our competitive position. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China. Accordingly, economic, political and legal developments in China significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • the allocation of resources; • an evolving regulatory system; and • lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese economy has also experienced certain adverse effects due to the recent global financial crisis. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also negatively affect us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, the Chinese government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 28 Table of Contents Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could materially and adversely affect overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic matters. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. Even if we endeavor to comply with relevant laws and regulations, we may not always be able to do so due to a lack of detailed implementation rules by relevant government authorities. In addition, some government authorities (including local government authorities) may not consistently apply regulatory requirements issued by themselves or other PRC government authorities, making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our distributors, business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, together with any development or interpretation of PRC law adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC, and the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, purports to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals and formed for purposes of overseas listing of interests in PRC companies held by such PRC companies or individuals obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE on August 16, 2010. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation 29 Table of Contents remains unclear, with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Fangda Partners, advised us that because we completed our restructuring for the initial public offering before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE did not require CSRC approval. A copy of Fangda Partners’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 (File No. 333-168301) in connection with our initial public offering, which is available at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for the initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. If the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. PRC merger and acquisition regulations and other related rules establish more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. PRC merger and acquisition regulations, such as the New M&A Rules, establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements of prior notification to or approval by the MOFCOM in some instances. Further, in some instances, such transactions may even be subject to anti-trust review or security review by PRC governmental authorities. For example, the MOFCOM promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. According to these circulars and rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having “national defense and security” concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” concerns. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review, the MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. If the business of any target company that we plan to acquire falls into the ambit of security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company either by equity or asset acquisition, capital increase or even through any contractual arrangement. We may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rules and other regulations regarding merger and acquisitions to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business and maintain our market share. 30 Table of Contents Recent PRC regulations, particularly Notice 75 relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities, may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. On October 21, 2005, the SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted Through Offshore Special Purpose Companies, known as Notice 75, which became effective on November 1, 2005. Notice 75 provides, among other things, that prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company, or the Offshore SPV, for the purpose of financing that Offshore SPV with assets of, or equity interests in, an enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident (whether a natural or legal person) who is a beneficial owner of the Offshore SPV must complete prescribed registration procedures with the relevant local branch of the SAFE. Such PRC resident must amend his, her or its SAFE registration under certain circumstances, including upon any injection of equity interests in, or assets of, a PRC enterprise to the Offshore SPV as well as any material change in the capital of the Offshore SPV, including by way of a transfer or swap of shares, a merger or division, a long-term equity or debt investment or the creation of any security interests in favor of third parties. Notice 75 applies retroactively and to indirect shareholdings. PRC residents who have established or acquired direct or indirect interest of any Offshore SPVs that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past are required to complete the registration procedures by March 31, 2006. SAFE subsequently issued a series of guidance to its local branches with respect to the application procedures of the SAFE registration under Notice 75. See “Regulation—Regulation on Foreign Exchange Registration of Offshore Investment by PRC Residents.” We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure our beneficial owners who are subject to Notice 75, with Notice 75 and other relevant requirements. All of our beneficial owners whose identities and addresses we know and who are subject to the Notice 75 have made registrations with the SAFE’s Jiangsu branch with respect to their existing investments in our company. However, we may not be informed of the identities of all the beneficial owners of our company who are residents in the PRC, and we cannot assure you that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents will continue to comply with the requirements under Notice 75 or other related SAFE rules. If SAFE determines that any of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents fails to comply with Notice 75 or other related SAFE rules, our PRC subsidiaries could be subject to fines and legal penalties, and SAFE could impose restrictions on our foreign exchange activities, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to us and our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to receive capital from us. Any of these actions could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business operations, acquisition opportunities and financing alternatives. All employee participants in our share incentive plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with the SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under their respective current account or the capital account. In January 2007, the SAFE issued the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In February 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule, which terminated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies issued by the SAFE in March 2007, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens participate in any stock incentive plan including employee stock holding plan, share option plan or similar plans of an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. 31 Table of Contents We and our PRC citizen employees participating in our 2006, 2008, 2009 and 2010 share incentive plans are subject to the Stock Option Rule, see “Management—Prior Share Incentive Plans” and “Management—2010 Share Incentive Plan.” Failure to comply with the Stock Option Rule and other relevant rules will subject us or our PRC citizen employees participating in our 2006, 2008, 2009 and 2010 share incentive plans to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions and impose restrictions on our execution of option plans, including the grant of options under such plans to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. The enforcement of new labor contract law and increase in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. China adopted a new labor contract law and its implementation rules effective on January 1, 2008 and September 18, 2008, respectively. The new labor contract law and its implementation rules impose more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among others, minimum wages, severance payment and non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation period as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed term employment contract. Due to the limited period of effectiveness of the new labor contract law and its implementation rules and the lack of clarity with respect to their implementation and potential penalties and fines, it is uncertain how they will impact our current employment policies and practices. Our employment policies and practices may violate the new labor contract law or its implementation rules and we may be subject to related penalties, fines or legal fees. Compliance with the new labor contract law and its implementation rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the new labor contract law and its implementation rules may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment by offshore holding companies in PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. In utilizing the proceeds from our initial public offering or any future offerings, as an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign- invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. We finance our PRC subsidiaries through capital contributions. In the second half of 2009, we obtained approvals from the relevant PRC authority to increase the registered capital of Changzhou Kanghui from RMB66 million to RMB407.3 million in anticipation of certain capital expenditures and other working capital needs. The contribution for capital increase of Changzhou Kanghui was completed in September 2010. In addition, we have completed the contribution for capital increase of Beijing Libeier in December 2010 to increase its registered capital to RMB30.0 million. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 32 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to use our revenue effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. We receive a significant portion of our net revenue in Renminbi, which is not a freely convertible currency. Restrictions on currency conversion imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our expenditures denominated in foreign currencies or our business activities outside China, if any. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign currency their respective current account bank accounts for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, the PRC government could take measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of the SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, they must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt-to-equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. In practice, it could be time consuming to complete the SAFE registration process. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries through additional capital contributions, the PRC MOFCOM or its local counterpart must approve the amount of these capital contributions. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency-denominated capital into Renminbi by restricting the use of the converted Renminbi. The notice requires that a foreign-invested company can only use Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not use such converted Renminbi for equity investments in the PRC unless specifically permitted in its business scope or under applicable law. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not change without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the company’s approved business scope. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. We may not be able to complete necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, or at all, with respect to loans to our PRC subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Failure to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals could limit our ability to use the proceeds we receive from our initial public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. The increase in the PRC enterprise income tax and the discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment and government incentives and subsidies available to us could, in each case, decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in the PRC were generally subject to a 30% state and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. Various preferential tax treatments promulgated by national tax authorities 33 Table of Contents were available to foreign-invested enterprises or enterprises located in certain areas of China. In addition, some local tax authorities allowed certain enterprises registered in their tax jurisdictions to enjoy lower preferential tax treatment according to local policies. In 2006, Changzhou Kanghui was granted a five-year tax holiday commencing from 2006, which entitles it to a two-year enterprise income tax exemption followed by a 50% reduction in enterprise income tax for the following three years. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation regulations, also effective on January 1, 2008, the PRC adopted a uniform enterprise income tax rate of 25% for all PRC enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, the New EIT Law also permits enterprises to continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatment, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, under which enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within a maximum of five years after the effective date of the New EIT Law. In addition, under the phase-out rules, enterprises established before March 16, 2007 and which were granted tax holidays under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their tax holidays until expiration of their tax holidays. Changzhou Kanghui was entitled to the exemption of enterprise income tax in 2006 and 2007 and 50% tax reduction in 2008, 2009 and 2010 based on the enterprise income tax rate of 25%. In 2011, both Changzhou Kanghui and Beijing Libeier were qualified as “High and New Technology Enterprises”, or HNTEs, which allow the two subsidiaries to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate from 2011 to 2013 as compared to the standard 25% tax rate. Wei Rui Li was not qualified as an HNTE and was subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% in 2011. However, after 2013, we can not assure you that Changzhou Kanghui and Beijing Libeier will obtain the approvals from the relevant authority to further extend this favorable tax treatment, and if Changzhou Kanghui and Beijing Libeier can not obtain such approvals, they may be subject to a higher tax rate which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we have received government incentives and subsidies from time to time, which amounted to RMB18.9 million, RMB3.5 million, and RMB5.6 million in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The preferential tax treatment that we enjoy and the government incentives and subsidies we receive could be modified or discontinued altogether, which could decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations to the New EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, a tax circular issued by the State Administration for Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese enterprise groups and established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” to shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises will be considered to be PRC source income, and subject to PRC enterprise income tax, currently at a rate of 10% unless otherwise reduced by relevant tax treaties. This circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. In addition, this circular mentioned establishes criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises established outside of China that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will 34 Table of Contents determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises controlled by individual PRC residents like us. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear and our PRC counsel is unable to opine on whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. We do not currently consider our company to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if the PRC tax authorities disagree with our assessment and determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income and dividends paid by us to our shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises as well as capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our shares may be subject to a PRC enterprise income tax. This will have an impact on our effective tax rate, will materially and adversely affect our net income and results of operations, and may require us to withhold tax on our shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. The New EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10%, in the absence of any applicable tax treaties that may reduce such rate, through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. China has not entered into any tax treaties with the Cayman Islands. If we are required under the New EIT Law to pay enterprise income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders may be materially and adversely affected. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares by our foreign investors may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC enterprise income tax is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but have income not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to a PRC enterprise income tax, usually at a rate of 10% unless otherwise reduced or exempted by relevant tax treaties, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. It is unclear whether dividends paid on our ordinary shares or ADSs, or any gain realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. Especially, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” then any dividends paid to our overseas shareholders or ADS holders that are “non-resident enterprises” and any gains realized by them from the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares may be regarded as being derived from PRC sources and, as a result, would be subject to a 10% PRC enterprise income tax, unless otherwise reduced or exempted by relevant tax treaties. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. If dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises” or gains from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs are subject to PRC tax, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries incorporated in China. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any 35 Table of Contents dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its respective registered capital, as well as to allocate a discretional portion of its after-tax profits to its staff welfare and bonus fund. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. We anticipate that in the foreseeable future our PRC subsidiaries will need to continue to set aside 10% of their respective after-tax profits to their statutory reserves. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, the scope of many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain, and their implementation could differ significantly in different localities. In certain instances, local implementation rules and their implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the higher or national level. Although we strive to comply with all applicable PRC laws and regulations, the relevant PRC government authorities may decide that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the downturn in the global or Chinese economy. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008 and the effect of the crisis persisted in 2009, 2010 and 2011. China’s economy has also faced challenges. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. Since we derive substantially all of our revenues from selling our products in China and other overseas markets, our business and prospects may be affected by economic conditions in countries or regions where we sell our products to. A slowdown in the global or Chinese economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may have a material and adverse impact on financings available to us. The recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The weakness in the economy could erode investors’ confidence, which constitutes the basis of the equity markets. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and slowdown of the Chinese economy may impact our business in the long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by a further global economic downturn or the slowdown of the Chinese economy. We face risks related to natural disasters and health epidemics in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics in China. For example, in May 2008, Sichuan Province experienced a strong earthquake, measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. In addition, our operations may be vulnerable to any health epidemic. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, also commonly referred to as “swine flu,” occurred in Mexico and has spread to other countries, including China. If the outbreak of swine flu were to become widespread in China or increase in severity, it could 36 Table of Contents adversely affect economic activity in China and our business and operations. Any future natural disasters or health epidemics in the PRC could also materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. The continuation or worsening of recent trends toward price inflation in China could erode some of the advantages of operating in a relatively low-cost jurisdiction such as China, which could negatively affect our competitive advantages and our results of operations. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the change in consumer price index in China was -0.7%, 3.3% and 5.5% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Because we purchase raw materials and components from suppliers in China, this price inflation has in the past and may again in the future increase the costs of the raw materials we must purchase for production. This trend risks counteracting the competitive advantage we enjoy as a result of the relatively lower production costs we incur from operating in China. If inflationary trends continue in China, China could lose its competitive advantages as a low-cost manufacturing venue, which could in turn lessen any competitive and reputational advantages we gain through China-based manufacturing. Accordingly, continuing or increasing inflation in China may weaken our competitiveness in our markets and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in China affecting us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of the services provided by us or our competitors; 37 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other medical services companies; • addition or departure of our senior management and other key personnel; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Any such class action suit or other securities litigation would divert the attention of our senior management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Future sales, or perceived sales, of ADSs or ordinary shares by existing shareholders could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market after our initial public offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. We currently have 140,401,842 ordinary shares outstanding. All 7,676,250 ADSs sold in our initial public offering are now freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of a total of 41,059,700 shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our new amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, ADS holders may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to cast a vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to ADS holders or carry out the voting instructions of ADS holders in a timely manner. We will use reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to ADS holders in a timely manner, but ADS holders may still not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which 38 Table of Contents any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote and ADS holders may lack recourse if their ordinary shares are not voted as requested. In addition, ADS holders, may not be able to call a shareholder meeting. ADS holders may be subject to limitations on transfers of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems is expedient to do so in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Shareholders’ rights to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and they may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make any such rights available to shareholders in the United States unless we register such rights and the securities to which such rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to holders of ADSs unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, shareholders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, the depositary has agreed to pay ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on their ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and ADS holders will not receive such distribution. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. This may afford less protection to the holders of our ADSs. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and plan to, follow home country practice in lieu of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between the corporate governance practices of our home country, the Cayman Islands and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. The significantly different standards applicable to us do not require us to: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have a compensation committee, a nominating or corporate governance committee; 39 Table of Contents • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year; • seek shareholder approval for (i) the implementation and material revisions of the terms of share incentive plans, (ii) the issuance of more than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares or 1% of the voting power outstanding to a related party, (iii) the issuance of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and (iv) an issuance that would result in a change of control; • adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines; or • adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. We rely on all such exemptions provided by the NYSE to a foreign private issuer, except that we have established a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee, and we have adopted and disclosed corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. As a result, shareholders may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. 