Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. We operate in a competitive and dynamic environment and therefore it is not possible for us to predict the impact these or any other factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our results. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our financial results depend significantly upon the success of our existing and new restaurants. Future growth in revenues and profits will depend on our ability to grow sales and efficiently manage costs in our existing and new restaurants. As of December 25, 2011, we operated 47 BRAVO! restaurants and 46 BRIO restaurants, of which two BRAVO! restaurants and six BRIO restaurants were opened within the preceding twelve months. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. In particular, the success of our restaurants revolves principally around guest traffic and average check per guest. Significant factors that might adversely impact our guest traffic levels and average guest check include, without limitation: • declining economic conditions, including housing market downturns, rising unemployment rates, lower disposable income and consumer confidence and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending in the markets we serve; • increased competition (both in the upscale affordable dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry); • changes in consumer preferences; • guests’ budgeting constraints and choosing not to order certain high-margin items such as desserts and beverages (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic); • guests’ failure to accept menu price increases that we may make to offset increases in key operating expenses; • our reputation and consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service; and • guest experiences from dining in our restaurants. Our restaurants are also susceptible to increases in certain key operating expenses that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, including, without limitation: • food and other raw materials costs, many of which we do not or cannot effectively hedge; • labor costs, including wage, workers’ compensation, health care and other benefits expenses; • rent expenses and other costs under leases for our new and existing restaurants; • energy, water and other utility costs; • costs for insurance (including health, property, liability and workers’ compensation); • information technology and other logistical costs; and • expenses due to litigation against us. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as expected could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our long-term success is highly dependent on our ability to successfully develop and expand our operations. We intend to develop new restaurants in our existing markets, and selectively enter into new markets. Since the start of 2007, we have expanded from 34 BRAVO! restaurants and 22 BRIO restaurants to 47 BRAVO! restaurants and 46 BRIO restaurants, as of December 25, 2011. The number and timing of new restaurants actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating growth, may be negatively impacted by a number of factors including, without limitation: • our inability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain favorable financing to support our development; • identification and availability of, and competition for, high quality locations that will continue to drive high levels of sales per unit; • acceptable lease arrangements, including sufficient levels of tenant allowances and construction contributions; • the financial viability of our landlords, including the availability of financing for our landlords; • construction and development cost management; • timely delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords and punctual commencement of build-out construction activities; • delays due to the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts and the complex design, construction and pre-opening processes for each new location; • obtaining all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; • competition in new markets, including competition for restaurant sites; • unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; • adverse weather during the construction period; • anticipated commercial, residential and infrastructure development near our new restaurants; • recruitment of qualified managers, chefs and other key operating personnel; and • other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. We may not be able to open our planned new restaurants on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. For example, we have closed one BRAVO! restaurant and converted one BRAVO! to a BRIO in the past twelve months because of their lack of profitability. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Such actions may limit our growth opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographical markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. We may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our brands or attract new guests. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographical markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographical markets in which we have substantial experience. If we are unable to expand in existing markets or penetrate new markets, our ability to increase our revenues and profitability may be harmed. Changes in economic conditions, including continuing effects from the recent recession, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, together with the rest of the restaurant industry, depend upon consumer discretionary spending. The recent recession, coupled with high unemployment rates, reduced home values, increases in home foreclosures, 15 Table of Contents investment losses, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit and reduced consumer confidence, has impacted consumers’ ability and willingness to spend discretionary dollars. Economic conditions may remain volatile and may continue to repress consumer confidence and discretionary spending for the near term. If the weak economy continues for a prolonged period of time or worsens, guest traffic could be adversely impacted if our guests choose to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend on meals while dining out. We believe that if the current negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or become more pervasive, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a permanent basis. Additionally, a decline in corporate travel and entertainment spending could result in a decrease in the traffic of business travelers at our restaurants. If restaurant sales decrease, our profitability could decline as we spread fixed costs across a lower level of sales. Reductions in staff levels, asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures have resulted and could result from prolonged negative restaurant sales. Damage to our reputation or lack of acceptance of our brands in existing and new markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu and our restaurants, and we must protect and grow the value of our BRAVO! and BRIO brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their respective values and damage our business. If guests perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer and our business may be adversely affected. A multi-location restaurant business such as ours can be adversely affected by negative publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, regarding food quality issues, public health concerns, illness, safety, injury or government or industry findings concerning our restaurants, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or others across the food industry supply chain. Negative publicity concerning E. coli bacteria, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “H1N1” or “swine flu” related to pork products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to menu items served by our restaurants could affect consumer food preferences. The sale of food and prepared food products also involves the risk of injury or illness to our guests as a result of tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling and transportation phases. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations. While we have taken steps to mitigate food quality, public health and other foodservice-related risks, these types of health concerns or negative publicity cannot be completely eliminated or mitigated and may materially harm our results of operations and result in damage to our brands. For example, in May 2006, a food virus outbreak in Michigan affected area restaurants, including one of our BRAVO! restaurants. As a result, this restaurant was closed for four days. While the effect of the outbreak was immaterial to our business, food quality issues or other public health concerns could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, our ability to successfully develop new restaurants in new markets may be adversely affected by a lack of awareness or acceptance of our brands in these new markets. To the extent that we are unable to foster name recognition and affinity for our brands in new markets, our new restaurants may not perform as expected and our growth may be significantly delayed or impaired. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in local or regional areas, we are susceptible to economic and other trends and developments, including adverse weather conditions, in these areas. Our financial performance is highly dependent on restaurants located in Ohio, Florida, Michigan and Pennsylvania, which comprise approximately 43% of our total restaurants. As a result, adverse economic 16 Table of Contents conditions in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In recent years, certain of these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing decline, high unemployment rates and the overall economic crisis than other geographic areas. In addition, given our geographic concentrations, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, terrorist attacks, increases in energy prices, adverse weather conditions, hurricanes, droughts or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. Approximately 32% of our total restaurants are located in Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania, which are particularly susceptible to snowfall, and 13% of our total restaurants are located in Florida and Louisiana, which are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, with restaurant sales typically higher during certain months, such as December. Adverse weather conditions during our most favorable months or periods may exacerbate the effect of adverse weather on guest traffic and may cause fluctuations in our operating results from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. For example, Hurricane Irene affected the entire eastern seaboard with extremely high winds, heavy rainfall and flooding in August 2011, which lead to reduced guest traffic and even closures at some of our restaurants. In addition, outdoor patio seating is available at most of our restaurants and may be impacted by a number of weather-related factors. Our inability to fully utilize our restaurants’ seating capacity as planned may negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. The impact of negative economic factors, including the availability of credit, on our landlords and other retail center tenants could negatively affect our financial results. Negative effects on our existing and potential landlords due to the inaccessibility of credit and other unfavorable economic factors may, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our landlords are unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, they may be unable to provide construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. At December 25, 2011, none of our locations are owned, managed or controlled by a landlord that has filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the last 12 months. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail sites, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such retail centers. Our development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the negative financial situations of developers and potential landlords. Many landlords have delayed or cancelled recent development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and recent declines in consumer spending, which has reduced the number of high-quality locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. In addition, several other tenants at retail centers in which we are located or where we have executed leases have ceased operations or, in some cases, have deferred openings or failed to open after committing to do so. These failures may lead to reduced guest traffic at retail centers in which our restaurants are located and may contribute to lower guest traffic at our restaurants. Changes in food availability and costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability and operating margins are dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. We rely on local, regional and national distributors and suppliers to provide our produce, beef, poultry, seafood and other ingredients. We contract with DMA and US Foods for the broadline distribution of most of our food products. Other than for a portion of our commodities, which are purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on GFS and Ben E. Keith as the primary distributors of a majority of our ingredients. Through our agreement with DMA, we have a non-exclusive arrangement with both GFS and Ben E. Keith on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. 17 Table of Contents Although we believe that alternative distribution sources are available, any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by either GFS or Ben E. Keith could cause our food costs to increase. Additionally, we currently rely on sole suppliers for certain of our food products, including substantially all of our soups and the majority of our sauces. Failure to identify an alternate source of supply for these items may result in significant cost increases. Increases in distribution costs or sale prices could also cause our food costs to increase. In addition, any material interruptions in our supply chain, such as a material interruption of ingredient supply due to the failures of third-party distributors or suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, may result in significant cost increases and reduce sales. Changes in the price or availability of certain food products could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to guests and could materially adversely affect our profitability and reputation. The type, variety, quality and price of produce, beef, poultry and seafood are more volatile than other types of food and are subject to factors beyond our control, including weather, governmental regulation, availability and seasonality, each of which may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. For example, weather patterns in recent years have resulted in lower than normal levels of rainfall in key agricultural states such as California and Texas, impacting the price of water and the corresponding prices of food commodities grown in states facing drought conditions. Our food distributors or suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Although we are able to contract for the majority of the food commodities used in our restaurants for periods of up to one year, the pricing and availability of some of the commodities used in our operations cannot be locked in for periods of longer than one week or at all. Currently, we have pricing understandings of varying lengths with several of our distributors and suppliers, including our distributors and suppliers of poultry, seafood, dairy products, soups and sauces, bakery items and certain meat products. We do not use financial instruments to hedge our risk to market fluctuations in the price of beef, seafood, produce and other food products at this time. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Increases in our labor costs, including as a result of changes in government regulation, could slow our growth or harm our business. We are subject to a wide range of labor costs. Because our labor costs are, as a percentage of revenues, higher than other industries, we may be significantly harmed by labor cost increases. We retain the financial responsibility for up to $250,000 of risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices and other insurable risks through our self insurance programs. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions, availability of such insurance or changes in state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our self insurance costs and insurance premiums. In addition, we are subject to the risk of employment-related litigation at both the state and federal levels, including claims styled as class action lawsuits which are more costly to defend. Also, some employment related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. Despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive health care benefits to our staff members, significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. Further, we are continuing to assess the impact of recently-adopted federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs, and significant increases in such costs could adversely impact our operating results. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass through the costs of such legislation in a manner that will not adversely impact our operating results. In addition, many of our restaurant personnel are hourly workers subject to various minimum wage requirements or changes to tip credits. Mandated increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit, 18 Table of Contents which are the amounts an employer is permitted to assume an employee receives in tips when calculating the employee’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes, have recently been and continue to be proposed and implemented at both federal and state government levels. Minimum wage increases or changes to allowable tip credits may increase our labor costs or effective tax rate. Additionally, potential changes in labor legislation could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. Although we do not currently have any unionized employees, future labor legislation could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase costs and reduce our operating flexibility. Labor shortages could increase our labor costs significantly or restrict our growth plans. Our restaurants are highly dependent on qualified management and operating personnel, including regional management, general managers and executive chefs. Qualified individuals have historically been in short supply and an inability to attract and retain them would limit the success of our existing restaurants as well as our development of new restaurants. We can make no assurances that we will be able to attract and retain qualified individuals in the future. Additionally, the cost of attracting and retaining qualified individuals may be higher than we anticipate, and as a result, our profitability could decline. Guest traffic at our restaurants could be significantly affected by competition in the restaurant industry in general and, in particular, within the dining segments of the restaurant industry in which we compete. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to food quality, ambiance, service, price and value and location, and a substantial number of restaurant operations compete with us for guest traffic. The main competitors for our brands are other operators of mid-priced, full service concepts in the multi-location upscale affordable dining segment in which we compete most directly for real estate locations and guests, including Maggiano’s, Cheesecake Factory, P.F. Chang’s and BJ’s Restaurants. We also compete to a lesser extent with nationally recognized casual dining Italian restaurants such as Romano’s Macaroni Grill, Carrabba’s Italian Grill and Olive Garden, as well as high quality, locally-owned and operated Italian restaurants. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, and many of our competitors are well established in markets in which we have existing restaurants or intend to locate new restaurants. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets will place downward pressure on our guest traffic and may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. We may also need to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that develop from time to time, and we cannot offer any assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that modifications to our concepts will not reduce our profitability. In addition, with improving product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants and grocery stores and the influence of negative economic conditions and other factors, consumers may choose less expensive alternatives, which could also negatively affect guest traffic at our restaurants. Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings, and new information or attitudes regarding diet and health or adverse opinions about the health effects of consuming our menu offerings, could affect consumer preferences and negatively impact our results of operations. Government regulation and consumer eating habits may impact our business as a result of changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming our menu offerings. These changes have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the enactment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu offerings, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food offerings. For example, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information available to guests, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, the PPACA establishes a uniform, federal requirement for certain restaurants to post nutritional information on their menus. Specifically, the PPACA requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations operating under the same name and offering substantially the same menus to publish the total number of calories of standard menu items on menus and menu boards, along with a statement that puts this calorie information in the context of a total daily calorie intake. The PPACA also requires covered restaurants to provide to consumers, upon request, a written summary of detailed nutritional information for each standard menu item, and to provide a statement on menus and menu boards about the availability of this information upon request. The FDA is also permitted to require additional nutrient disclosures, such as disclosure of trans-fat content. An unfavorable report on, or reaction to, our menu ingredients, the size of our portions or the nutritional content of our menu items could negatively influence the demand for our offerings. Certain provisions of the PPACA became effective upon enactment, while other provisions will require regulations to be promulgated by the FDA. It is expected that the FDA will not enforce the applicable provisions of the PPACA until these regulations are finalized. The PPACA specifically preempts conflicting state and local laws, and instead provides a single, national standard for nutrition labeling of restaurant menu items. However, until these provisions of the PPACA are fully adopted and effective, we will continue to be subject to a variety of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements, many of which are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with current and future laws and regulations regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items may be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, if consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items, and we may experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes. We cannot predict the impact of the new nutrition labeling requirements under the PPACA, once they are issued and implemented. Additionally, some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans-fats and sodium, which may require us to limit or eliminate trans-fats and sodium from our menu offerings and switch to higher cost ingredients and may hinder our ability to operate in certain markets. We cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or our ability to successfully implement the nutrient content disclosure requirements and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. While we believe that our ability to adapt to consumer preferences is a strength of our concepts, we are concerned that the imposition of menu-labeling laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as the restaurant industry in general. Our marketing programs may not be successful. We expend significant resources in our marketing efforts, using a variety of media, including social media venues. We expect to continue to conduct brand awareness programs and guest initiatives to attract and retain guests. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues. Additionally, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which enable them to purchase significantly more television and radio advertising than we are able to purchase. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotions or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, or should our advertising and promotions be less effective than our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of new restaurant openings could result in fluctuations in our financial performance. Quarterly results have been, and in the future may continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings (often dictated by factors outside of our control), including associated pre-opening costs and operating inefficiencies, as well as changes in our geographic concentration due to the opening of new restaurants. We typically incur the most significant portion of pre-opening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the two months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our 20 Table of Contents experience has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Our new restaurants commonly take several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including the training of new personnel, lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient qualified staff and other factors. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, and may continue to have, a meaningful impact on our profitability. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year, and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors. Opening new restaurants in existing markets may negatively affect sales at our existing restaurants. The consumer target area of our restaurants varies by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, local retail and business attractions, area demographics and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant, whether using the same brand or a different brand, in or near markets in which we already have existing restaurants could adversely impact the sales of new or existing restaurants. We do not intend to open new restaurants that materially impact the existing sales of our existing restaurants. However, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization between our restaurants will not occur or become more significant in the future as we continue to expand our operations. Our business operations and future development could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team. The success of our business continues to depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent in particular on our ability to retain and motivate Saed Mohseni, our President and Chief Executive Officer and James J. O’Connor, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as certain of our other senior executive officers. We currently have employment agreements in place with Mr. Mohseni and Mr. O’Connor. The loss of the services of our CEO, CFO, senior officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. We have no reason to believe that we will lose the services of any of these individuals in the foreseeable future; however, we currently have no effective replacement for any of these individuals due to their experience, reputation in the industry and special role in our operations. We also do not maintain any key man life insurance policies for any of our employees. Our growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We opened two BRAVO! and six BRIO restaurants in 2011, two BRAVO! and three BRIO restaurants in 2010, and two BRAVO! and five BRIO restaurants in 2009. Our recent and future growth may strain our restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls and information systems. Those demands on our infrastructure and resources may also adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent sales deleveraging, which would adversely affect our profitability. Restaurant companies have been the target of class-actions and other litigation alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state law. We are subject to a variety of lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to claims by guests, employees and others regarding issues such as food safety, personal injury and premises liability, employment- 21 Table of Contents related claims, harassment, discrimination, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time, including a 2004 class action lawsuit initiated by servers at a BRIO location in Newport, Kentucky. In this lawsuit, certain of our servers alleged that they were required to remit back to the restaurant a percentage of their tips in violation of Kentucky law. While we settled this lawsuit for an immaterial amount and no other such lawsuits have had a material impact historically, an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with specific retention levels, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employer’s practice liability, director and officer and other insurable risks. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, we could also be adversely affected by negative publicity, litigation costs resulting from the defense of these claims and the diversion of time and resources from our operations. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims, and fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability. We believe our insurance coverage is customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, if they occur, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the cost of workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance, employer’s practice liability insurance and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance fluctuates based on our historical trends, market conditions and availability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2012 and beyond. These increases, as well as recently-enacted federal legislation requiring employers to provide specified levels of health insurance to all employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, additional operating efficiencies or the pass-through of such increased costs to our guests. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. In connection with the initial public offering of our common shares, we repaid all outstanding loans under our previously existing senior credit facilities and entered into new senior credit facilities that included a $45.0 million term loan facility and a $40.0 million revolving credit facility. As of December 25, 2011, we had approximately $32.6 million of outstanding indebtedness under our term loan facility and no outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. As of December 25, 2011, we had $36.8 million of revolving loan availability under our senior revolving credit facility (after giving effect to $3.2 million of outstanding letters of credit). For the years ended December 25, 2011 and December 26, 2010, our net principal repayments on indebtedness (including net repayments under our previously existing revolving credit facility) were $8.4 million and $77.1 million, respectively, and cash interest payments for such periods were $1.4 million and $6.4 million, respectively. Our senior credit facilities mature in 2015, and borrowings under the senior credit facilities bear interest at our option of either (i) the Alternate Base Rate (as such term is defined in our credit agreement) plus the applicable margin of 1.75% to 2.25% or (ii) at a fixed rate for a period of one, two, three or six months equal to the London interbank offered rate, LIBOR, plus the applicable margin of 2.75% to 3.25%. See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources — Current Resources.” Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it: • requires us to utilize a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development activity and other general corporate purposes; 22 Table of Contents • increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; • makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our senior credit facilities are at variable rates; • limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Although our senior credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. Our senior credit facilities require us to maintain certain fixed charge coverage ratios and leverage ratios which become more restrictive over time. While we have never defaulted on compliance with any financial covenants under the terms of our indebtedness, our ability to comply with these ratios in the future may be affected by events beyond our control, and an inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior credit facilities. In the event of any default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could elect to terminate lending commitments and declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources.” We may be unable to obtain debt or other financing on favorable terms or at all. There are inherent risks in our ability to borrow. Our lenders may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy, increased financial instability of many borrowers and the declining value of their assets. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our senior credit facilities, refinance our existing indebtedness or to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our senior credit facilities because of a lender default or to obtain other cost-effective financing. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures (including the opening of new restaurants) and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash. We may be required to record additional asset impairment charges in the future. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we review long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangibles, subject to amortization, for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. In determining the recoverability of the asset value, an analysis is performed at the individual restaurant level and primarily includes an assessment of historical cash flows and other relevant factors and circumstances. The other factors and circumstances include changes in the economic environment, changes in the manner in which assets are used, 23 Table of Contents unfavorable changes in legal factors or business climate, incurring excess costs in construction of the asset, overall restaurant operating performance and projections for financial performance. These estimates result in a wide range of variability on a year to year basis due to the nature of the criteria. Negative restaurant-level cash flow over the previous 12-month period is considered a potential impairment indicator. In such situations, we evaluate future cash flow projections in conjunction with qualitative factors and future operating plans. Our impairment assessment process requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding future undiscounted cash flows and operating outcomes, which are based upon a significant degree of management’s judgment. Based on this analysis, if we believe that the carrying amount of the assets are not recoverable, an impairment charge is recognized based upon the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds fair value. See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Significant Accounting Policies — Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.” In 2011, we incurred an asset impairment charge of approximately $2.2 million related to one restaurant. We had no asset impairment charge in fiscal 2010, but recognized an impairment charge of approximately $6.4 million in fiscal 2009 related to three restaurants. Continued economic weakness within our respective markets may adversely impact consumer discretionary spending and may result in lower restaurant sales. Unfavorable fluctuations in our commodity costs, supply costs and labor rates, which may or may not be within our control, may also impact our operating margins. Any of these factors could as a result affect the estimates used in our impairment analysis and require additional impairment tests and charges to earnings. We continue to assess the performance of our restaurants and monitor the need for future impairment. There can be no assurance that future impairment tests will not result in additional charges to earnings. Security breaches of confidential guest information in connection with our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions may adversely affect our business. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our guests’ credit or debit card information. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, may have a material adverse effect on us and our restaurants. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which, in turn, could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including our names and logos and the unique ambiance of our restaurants. We have registered or applied to register a number of our trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our goods and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. If our efforts to register, maintain and protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates, dilutes or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We may also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our operating profits could be adversely affected. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend, require us to rebrand our services, if feasible, divert management’s attention and resources or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. 24 Table of Contents Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products or services, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We rely on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, including point-of-sale processing at our restaurants. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Although we employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption and intend to maintain and upgrade our security technology and operational procedures to prevent such damage, breaches or other disruptive problems, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. A major natural or man-made disaster at our corporate facility could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our corporate systems, processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one Ohio location with certain systems and processes being concurrently stored at an offsite storage facility in accordance with our disaster recovery plan. Back-up data tapes are also sent to a separate off-site location on a weekly basis. As part of our disaster recovery plan, we backup data and environments from our core systems at our co-location facility. Failures or delays in recovery of data, delayed reporting and compliance, inability to perform necessary corporate functions and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business and create exposure to administrative and other legal claims against us. We incur increased cost obligations as a result of being a public company. Prior to October 26, 2010, as a privately held company, we were not required to comply with certain corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies required of a publicly traded company. New and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the Nasdaq Global Market, have created uncertainty for public companies and increased our costs and time that our board of directors and management must devote to complying with these rules and regulations. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and lead to a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. Furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a publicly traded company. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires a report by our independent registered public accounting 25 Table of Contents firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While we are in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for fiscal 2011, there is no guarantee that we will meet all areas of compliance in future years. We will be unable to issue securities in the public markets through the use of a shelf registration statement if we are not in compliance with Section 404. Furthermore, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price and could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely. Federal, state and local tax rules may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, complying with new tax rules, laws or regulations could impact our financial condition, and increases to federal or state statutory tax rates and other changes in tax laws, rules or regulations may increase our effective tax rate. Any increase in our effective tax rate could have a material impact on our financial results. In 2011, our 2009 federal tax return was audited by the IRS. The audit has been closed and no findings were recorded; however, there is no guarantee that future audits will not be conducted or any findings recorded in a separate audit for another period. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may be volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common shares may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, which include: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • changes in laws or regulations, or new interpretations or applications of laws and regulations, that are applicable to our business; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • additions or departures of our senior management personnel; • sales of common shares by our directors and executive officers; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; • actions by shareholders; • the level and quality of research analyst coverage for our common shares, changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or failure to meet such estimates; • the financial disclosure we may provide to the public, any changes in such disclosure or our failure to meet such disclosure; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our distributors or suppliers or our competitors; • introductions of new offerings or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; 26 Table of Contents • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in our common shares; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and • other events or factors, including changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets (including those resulting from Acts of God, war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events). In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The price of our common shares could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our common shares experiences adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. Future sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market by our existing shareholders, upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, vesting of shares of restricted stock or shares of stock granted in the future or by persons who acquire shares in the public market may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Such sales could also create public perception of difficulties or problems with our business. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 25, 2011, we had 19,476,559 common shares issued and outstanding. In addition, we have reserved 1.9 million common shares for issuance under the Bravo Brio Restaurant Group, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, of which 318,531 shares are subject to vesting under outstanding restricted stock awards and 1,508,288 shares remain eligible for future issuance. Stock options to purchase an aggregate of 1,260,825 common shares are currently outstanding under the Bravo Development, Inc. Option Plan. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our shares, publish negative research or reports, or do not publish reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our industry. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our shares or our competitors’ stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Certain provisions of Ohio law and our articles of incorporation and regulations may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price, and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to remove our board of directors and management. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and regulations may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • advance notice requirements for shareholders proposals and nominations; • availability of “blank check” preferred shares; 27 Table of Contents • establishment of a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and • limitations on the removal of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Ohio, we are governed by the provisions of Section 1704 of the Ohio Revised Code. These provisions may prohibit large shareholders, particularly those owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our articles of incorporation and regulations and under Ohio law could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for our common shares in the future and could potentially result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Although no preferred shares were outstanding as of December 25, 2011 and although we have no present plans to issue any preferred shares, our articles of incorporation authorize the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares. The preferred shares may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which will be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the shareholders. These terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred shares could diminish the rights of holders of our common shares and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common shares. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred shares could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred shares and the foregoing anti-takeover provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by a third party to acquire control of our company, even if some of our shareholders consider such change of control to be beneficial. Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors may be forced to sell their shares in order to realize a return on their investment. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common shares. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common shares for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the terms of our senior credit facilities and might be restricted by the terms of any indebtedness that we incur in the future. Consequently, you should not rely on dividends in order to receive a return on your investment. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common shareholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. If we issue additional equity securities, existing shareholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 