Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the significant risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before making an investment decision in the Company. The risks set forth below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially affect our business, our structure, our financial condition, our investments and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of NMFC's common stock could decline. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States (U.S.) and of several countries in the European Union (EU) could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, thus affecting the Company's financial condition and earnings. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. Further, Moody's and Fitch have warned that they may downgrade the federal government's credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the government's credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with the Company's debt portfolio and the Company's ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on the Company's financial performance and the value of NMFC's common stock. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Risks and ongoing concerns resulting from the debt crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, and we cannot assure you that future assistance packages will be available, or if available, sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, the Company's business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. In October 2014, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it has terminated its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve's holdings of long-term securities until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, showed signs of improvement. It is unclear what effect, if any, the Federal Reserve's termination of quantitative easing will have on the value of the Company's investments. However, it is possible that without quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments, along with the European sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact the Company's ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. 29 Table of Contents The Company may suffer credit losses. Investments in small and middle market businesses are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk of credit loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, such as the U.S. and many other economies have recently been experiencing. The Company does not expect to replicate the Predecessor Entities' historical performance or the historical performance of other entities managed or supported by New Mountain Capital. The Company does not expect to replicate the Predecessor Entities' historical performance or the historical performance of New Mountain Capital's investments. The Company's investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Predecessor Entities. Although the Predecessor Entities commenced operations during otherwise unfavorable economic conditions, this was a favorable environment in which the Predecessor Operating Company could conduct its business in light of its investment objectives and strategy. In addition, the Company's investment strategies may differ from those of New Mountain Capital or its affiliates. The Company, as a BDC and as a RIC, is subject to certain regulatory restrictions that do not apply to New Mountain Capital or its affiliates. The Company is generally not permitted to invest in any portfolio company in which New Mountain Capital or any of its affiliates currently have an investment or to make any co-investments with New Mountain Capital or its affiliates, except to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. This may adversely affect the pace at which the Company makes investments. Moreover, the Company may operate with a different leverage profile than the Predecessor Entities. Furthermore, none of the prior results from the Predecessor Entities were from public reporting companies, and all or a portion of these results were achieved in particularly favorable market conditions for the Predecessor Operating Company's investment strategy which may never be repeated. Finally, we can offer no assurance that the Company's investment team will be able to continue to implement its investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past. There is uncertainty as to the value of the Company's portfolio investments because most of its investments are, and may continue to be in private companies and recorded at fair value. In addition, the fair values of the Company's investments are determined by the Company's board of directors in accordance with the Company's valuation policy. Some of the Company's investments are and may be in the form of securities or loans that are not publicly traded. The fair value of these investments may not be readily determinable. Under the 1940 Act, the Company is required to carry its portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of its securities. The Company values its investments for which it does not have readily available market quotations quarterly, or more frequently as circumstances require, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors in accordance with its valuation policy, which is at all times consistent with GAAP. See Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies or Note 4, Fair Value for additional information on around valuations. The Company's board of directors utilizes the services of one or more independent third-party valuation firms to aid it in determining the fair value with respect to its material unquoted assets in accordance with its valuation policy. The inputs into the determination of fair value of these investments may require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data is available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. 30 Table of Contents The types of factors that the board of directors takes into account in determining the fair value of its investments generally include, as appropriate: available market data, including relevant and applicable market trading and transaction comparables, applicable market yields and multiples, security covenants, call protection provisions, information rights, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments, its earnings and discounted cash flows and the markets in which it does business, comparisons of financial ratios of peer companies that are public, comparable merger and acquisition transactions and the principal market and enterprise values. Since these valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, the Company's determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, the Company's fair value determinations may cause its net asset value, on any given date, to be materially understated or overstated. In addition, investors purchasing NMFC's common stock based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the realizable value that the Company's investments might warrant. The Company may adjust quarterly the valuation of its portfolio to reflect its board of directors' determination of the fair value of each investment in its portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in the Company's statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The Company's ability to achieve its investment objective depends on key investment personnel of the Investment Adviser. If the Investment Adviser were to lose any of its key investment personnel, the Company's ability to achieve its investment objective could be significantly harmed. The Company depends on the investment judgment, skill and relationships of the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser, particularly Steven B. Klinsky and Robert A. Hamwee, as well as other key personnel to identify, evaluate, negotiate, structure, execute, monitor and service its investments. The Investment Adviser, as an affiliate of New Mountain Capital, is supported by New Mountain Capital's team, which as of December 31, 2014 consisted of approximately 100 staff members of New Mountain Capital and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to the Company under the Investment Management Agreement. The Investment Adviser may also depend upon New Mountain Capital to obtain access to investment opportunities originated by the professionals of New Mountain Capital and its affiliates. The Company's future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the key investment personnel of the Investment Adviser. The departure of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to achieve its investment objective. The Investment Committee, which provides oversight over the Company's investment activities, is provided by the Investment Adviser. The Investment Committee currently consists of five members. The loss of any member of the Investment Committee or of other senior professionals of the Investment Adviser and its affiliates without suitable replacement could limit the Company's ability to achieve its investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. To achieve the Company's investment objective, the Investment Adviser may hire, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals to participate in its investment selection and monitoring process. If the Investment Adviser is unable to find investment professionals or do so in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents The Investment Adviser has limited experience managing a BDC or a RIC, which could adversely affect our business. Other than the Company, the Investment Adviser has not previously managed a BDC or a RIC. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs and RICs that do not apply to the other investment vehicles previously managed by the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser. For example, under the 1940 Act, BDCs are required to invest at least 70.0% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or thinly traded companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC under subchapter M of the Code requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent the Company from qualifying as a BDC or as a RIC and could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which would have a material adverse effect on our performance. The Investment Adviser's lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under the constraints applicable to BDCs and RICs may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve the Company's investment objective. If the Company fails to maintain its status as a BDC or as a RIC, its operating flexibility could be significantly reduced. The Company operates in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and may not be able to compete effectively. The Company competes for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity and hedge funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Many of its competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than it does. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to the Company. In addition, some of the Company's competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than the Company has. Furthermore, many of the Company's competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on the Company as a BDC or the source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements that it must satisfy to maintain its RIC status. These characteristics could allow the Company's competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than the Company is able to do. There are a number of new BDCs that have recently completed their IPO or that have filed registration statements with the SEC, which could create increased competition for investment opportunities. The Company may lose investment opportunities if it does not match its competitors' pricing, terms and structure. With respect to the investments the Company makes, it does not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates it may offer, and we believe that some of the Company's competitors may make loans with interest rates that may be lower than the rates it offers. In the secondary market for acquiring existing loans, we expect the Company to compete generally on the basis of pricing terms. If the Company matches its competitors' pricing, terms and structure, it may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. If the Company is forced to match its competitors' pricing, terms and structure, it may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on its investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Part of the Company's competitive advantage stems from the fact that we believe the market for middle-market lending is underserved by traditional bank lenders and other financial sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of the Company's competitors in this target market could force it to accept less attractive investment terms. The Company may also compete for investment opportunities with accounts managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates. Although the Investment Adviser allocates opportunities in accordance with its policies and procedures, allocations to such other accounts reduces the amount and frequency of opportunities available to the Company and may not be in the best 32 Table of Contents interests of the Company and, consequently, NMFC's stockholders. Moreover, the performance of investment opportunities is not known at the time of allocation. If the Company is not able to compete effectively, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, thus affecting the business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities that it identifies or that it will be able to fully invest its available capital. Our business, results of operations and financial condition depends on the Company's ability to manage future growth effectively. The Company's ability to achieve its investment objective and to grow depends on the Investment Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet the Company's investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of the Investment Adviser's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to the Company and its ability to access financing on acceptable terms. The Investment Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Investment Management Agreement and may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to the Company's portfolio companies. These demands on the time of the Investment Adviser and its investment professionals may distract them or slow the Company's rate of investment. In order to grow, the Company and the Investment Adviser may need to retain, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals. However, these investment professionals may not be able to contribute effectively to the work of the Investment Adviser. If the Company is unable to manage its future growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The incentive fee may induce the Investment Adviser to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to pursue investments that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser is calculated based on a percentage of the Company's return on investment capital. This may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on the Company's investments. In addition, because the base management fee is payable based upon the Company's gross assets, which includes any borrowings for investment purposes, but excludes borrowings under the SLF Credit Facility and cash and cash equivalents for investment purposes, the Investment Adviser may be further encouraged to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of NMFC's common stock. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser also may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to invest in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide the cash necessary to pay current distributions to NMFC's stockholders. Under these investments, the Company would accrue the interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the investment's term, if at all. The Company's net investment income used to calculate the income portion of the incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of the incentive fee would be based on income that the Company has not yet received in cash and may never receive in cash if the portfolio company is unable to satisfy such interest payment obligations. In addition, the "catch-up" portion of the incentive fee may encourage the Investment Adviser to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and dividend amounts. 33 Table of Contents The Company may be obligated to pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation even if the Company incurs a loss. The Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of the Company's Pre-Incentive Fee Adjusted Net Investment Income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. Accordingly, since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of the Company's net asset value, decreases in the Company's net asset value makes it easier to achieve the performance threshold. The Company's Pre-Incentive Fee Adjusted Net Investment Income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that it may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on the Company's statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, the Company may be required to pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of its portfolio or the Company incurs a net loss for that quarter. The Company borrows money, which could magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us and increase the risk of investing in us. The Company borrows money as part of its business plan. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital and may, consequently, increase the risk of investing in us. We expect the Company to continue to use leverage to finance its investments through senior securities issued by banks and other lenders. Lenders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on the Company's assets that are superior to claims of NMFC's common stockholders. If the value of the Company's assets decreases, leveraging would cause its net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had it not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in the Company's income would cause its net income to decline more sharply than they would have had it not borrowed. Such a decline could adversely affect the Company's ability to make common stock dividend payments. In addition, because the Company's investments may be illiquid, the Company may be unable to dispose of them or to do so at a favorable price in the event it needs to do so if it is unable to refinance any indebtedness upon maturity and, as a result, we may suffer losses. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. The Company's ability to service any debt that it incurs depends largely on its financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the Investment Adviser's management fee is payable to the Investment Adviser based on gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, the Investment Adviser may have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with the Company's interests and the interests of its common stockholders. In addition, holders of NMFC's common stock will, indirectly, bear the burden of any increase in the Company's expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to the Investment Adviser. At December 31, 2014, the Company had $468.1 million, $50.0 million, $115.0 million and $37.5 million of indebtedness outstanding under the Holdings Credit Facility, the NMFC Credit Facility, the Convertible Notes and the SBA-guaranteed debentures, respectively. The Holdings Credit Facility had a weighted average interest rate of 2.9% for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the NMFC Credit Facility had a weighted average interest rate of 2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2014. The interest rate on the Convertible Notes is 5.0% per year. We may need to raise additional capital to grow the Company. The Company may need additional capital to fund new investments and grow. The Company may access the capital markets periodically to issue equity securities. In addition, the Company may also issue debt securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase the Company's funding costs and limit its access to the 34 Table of Contents capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Company. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit the Company's ability to grow. In addition, the Company is required to distribute at least 90.0% of its net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to its stockholders to maintain its RIC status. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. If the Company is unable to access the capital markets or if the Company is unable to borrow from financial institutions, the Company may be unable to grow its business and execute its business strategy fully, and earnings, if any, could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on the value of the Company's securities. If the Company is unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions in its borrowings, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Holdings Credit Facility include covenants that, subject to exceptions, restrict the Company's ability to pay distributions, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. The Holdings Credit Facility also includes a change of control provision that accelerates the indebtedness under the facility in the event of certain change of control events. Complying with these restrictions may prevent the Company from taking actions that we believe would help it to grow its business or are otherwise consistent with its investment objective. These restrictions could also limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. In addition, the restrictions contained in the Holdings Credit Facility could limit the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders in certain circumstances, which could result in the Company failing to qualify as a RIC and thus becoming subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). The NMFC Credit Facility includes customary covenants, including certain financial covenants related to asset coverage and liquidity and other maintenance covenants, as well as customary events of default. The Company's Convertible Notes are subject to certain covenants, including covenants requiring the Company to provide financial information to the holders of the Convertible Notes and the trustee if the Company ceases to be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. These covenants are subject to limitations and exceptions. The breach of any of the covenants or restrictions, unless cured within the applicable grace period, would result in a default under the applicable credit facility that would permit the lenders thereunder to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable. In such an event, the Company may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result, any default could have serious consequences to our financial condition. An event of default or an acceleration under the credit facilities could also cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt instrument or contractual obligation, which would adversely impact the Company's liquidity. The Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to the credit facilities if for any reason it is unable to comply with it, and the Company may not be able to refinance the credit facilities on terms acceptable to it, or at all. The Company may enter into reverse repurchase agreements, which are another form of leverage. The Company may enter into reverse repurchase agreements as part of its management of its investment portfolio. Under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Company will effectively pledge its assets as collateral to secure a short-term loan. Generally, the other party to the agreement makes the loan in an amount equal to a percentage of the fair value of the pledged collateral. At the maturity of the reverse repurchase agreement, the payor will be required to repay the loan and correspondingly receive back its collateral. While used as collateral, the assets continue to pay principal and interest which are for the benefit of the Company. The Company's use of reverse repurchase agreements, if any, involves many of the same risks involved in its use of leverage, as the proceeds from reverse repurchase agreements generally will be 35 Table of Contents invested in additional securities. There is a risk that the market value of the securities acquired with the proceeds of a reverse repurchase agreement may decline below the price of the securities that it has sold but remains obligated to repurchase under the reverse repurchase agreement. In addition, there is a risk that the market value of the securities effectively pledged by the Company may decline. If a buyer of securities under a reverse repurchase agreement were to file for bankruptcy or experience insolvency, the Company may be adversely affected. Also, in entering into reverse repurchase agreements, the Company would bear the risk of loss to the extent that the proceeds of such agreements at settlement are more than the fair value of the underlying securities being pledged. In addition, due to the interest costs associated with reverse repurchase agreements transactions, the Company's net asset value would decline, and, in some cases, we may be worse off than if such instruments had not been used. If the Company is unable to obtain additional debt financing, or if its borrowing capacity is materially reduced, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Company may want to obtain additional debt financing, or need to do so upon maturity of its credit facilities, in order to obtain funds which may be made available for investments. The revolving period under the Holdings Credit Facility ends on December 18, 2017, and the Holdings Credit Facility matures on December 18, 2019. The NMFC Credit Facility, the Convertible Notes and the SBA-guaranteed debentures mature on June 4, 2019, June 15, 2019 and March 1, 2025, respectively. If the Company is unable to increase, renew or replace any such facilities and enter into new debt financing facilities or other debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, its liquidity may be reduced significantly. In addition, if the Company is unable to repay amounts outstanding under any such facilities and is declared in default or is unable to renew or refinance these facilities, it may not be able to make new investments or operate our business in the normal course. These situations may arise due to circumstances that the Company may be unable to control, such as lack of access to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or the Company, and could materially damage the Company's business operations, results of operations and financial condition. A renewed disruption in the capital markets and the credit markets could adversely affect our business. As a BDC, the Company must maintain its ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. If the Company is unable to access the capital markets or credit markets, the Company may be forced to curtail its business operations and may be unable to pursue new investment opportunities. The capital markets and the credit markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent periods, and, as a result, there has been and will likely continue to be uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Disruptions in the capital markets in recent years increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. In addition, a prolonged period of market illiquidity may cause the Company to reduce the volume of loans it originates and/or funds and adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase the Company's funding costs, limit its access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Company. These events could limit the Company's investment originations, limit its ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. Ongoing disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict the Company's business operations and, consequently, could adversely impact the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. If the fair value of the Company's assets declines substantially, it may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios imposed upon it by the 1940 Act and contained in its Holding Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility. Any such failure would affect the Company's ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, draw on its Holdings Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility and pay 36 Table of Contents distributions, which could materially impair its business operations. The Company's liquidity could be impaired further by the Company's inability to access the capital or credit markets. For example, we cannot be certain that the Company will be able to renew its credit facilities as they mature, to consummate new borrowing facilities to provide capital for normal operations, including new originations, or reapply for SBIC licenses. In recent years, reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally in recent years. In addition, adverse economic conditions due to these disruptive conditions could materially impact the Company's ability to comply with the financial and other covenants in any existing or future credit facilities. If the Company is unable to comply with these covenants, this could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect the Company's cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent the Company borrows money to make investments, the Company's net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which it borrows funds and the rate at which it invests those funds. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company's net investment income in the event it uses debt to finance its investments. In periods of rising interest rates, the Company's cost of funds would increase, which could reduce its net investment income. The Company may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. The incentive fee the Company pays to the Investment Adviser with respect to capital gains may be effectively greater than 20.0%. As a result of the operation of the cumulative method of calculating the capital gains portion of the incentive fee the Company pays to the Investment Adviser, the cumulative aggregate capital gains fee received by the Investment Adviser could be effectively greater than 20.0%, depending on the timing and extent of subsequent net realized capital losses or net unrealized depreciation. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, this payment calculation would affect your investment in NMFC's common stock. SBIC LP is licensed by the SBA and is subject to SBA regulations. On August 1, 2014, the Company's wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiary, SBIC LP, received its license to operate as an SBIC under the 1958 Act and is regulated by the SBA. The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies, regulates the types of financings, prohibits investing in small businesses with certain characteristics or in certain industries and requires capitalization thresholds that limit distributions to the Company. Compliance with SBIC requirements may cause SBIC LP to invest at less competitive rates in order to find investments that qualify under the SBA regulations. The SBA regulations require, among other things, an annual periodic examination of a licensed SBIC by an SBA examiner to determine the SBIC's compliance with the relevant SBA regulations, and the performance of a financial audit by an independent auditor. If SBIC LP fails to comply with applicable regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit SBIC LP's use of the debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit SBIC LP from making new investments. In addition, the SBA could revoke or suspend SBIC LP's license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the 1958 Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. These actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect the Company because SBIC LP is a wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiary of the Company. 37 Table of Contents SBA-guaranteed debentures are non-recourse to the Company, have a ten year maturity, and may be prepaid at any time without penalty. Pooling of issued SBA-guaranteed debentures occurs in March and September of each year. The interest rate of SBA-guaranteed debentures is fixed at the time of pooling at a market-driven spread over ten year U.S. Treasury Notes. The interest rate on debentures issued prior to the next pooling date is LIBOR plus 30 basis points. Leverage through SBA-guaranteed debentures is subject to required capitalization thresholds. Current SBA regulations limit the amount that any SBIC may borrow to two tiers of leverage capped at $150.0 million, where each tier is equivalent to the SBIC's regulatory capital, which generally equates to the amount of equity capital in the SBIC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS Because the Company intends to distribute substantially all of its income to its stockholders to maintain its status as a RIC, the Company will continue to need additional capital to finance its growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, the Company's ability to grow may be impaired. In order for the Company to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs and to avoid payment of excise taxes, the Company intends to distribute to its stockholders substantially all of its annual taxable income. As a result of these requirements, the Company may need to raise capital from other sources to grow its business. As a BDC, the Company is required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities and excluding SBA-guaranteed debentures as permitted by exemptive relief obtained from the SEC, to total senior securities, which includes all of the Company's borrowings with the exception of SBA-guaranteed debentures, of at least 200.0%. This requirement limits the amount that the Company may borrow. Since the Company continues to need capital to grow its investment portfolio, these limitations may prevent the Company from incurring debt and require the Company to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect the Company will be able to borrow and to issue additional debt securities and expect that the Company will be able to issue additional equity securities, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Company, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to the Company on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as a BDC, the Company generally is not permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to the Company, the Company may be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and the Company's net asset value could decline. SBIC LP may be unable to make distributions to the Company that will enable the Company to meet or maintain RIC status. In order for the Company to continue to qualify for tax benefits available to RICs and to minimize corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, the Company must distribute to its stockholders, for each taxable year, at least 90.0% of its "investment company taxable income", which is generally its net ordinary income plus the excess of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses, including investment company taxable income from SBIC LP. The Company will be partially dependent on SBIC LP for cash distributions to enable the Company to meet the RIC distribution requirements. SBIC LP may be limited by SBA regulations governing SBICs from making certain distributions to the Company that may be necessary to maintain the Company's status as a RIC. The Company may have to request a waiver of the SBA's restrictions for SBIC LP to make certain distributions to maintain the Company's RIC status. The Company cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such waiver and if SBIC LP is unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on the Company. 38 Table of Contents Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. As a BDC, the Company is prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with its respective affiliates without the prior approval of its respective independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5.0% or more of the Company's outstanding voting securities is an affiliate of the Company for purposes of the 1940 Act. The Company is generally prohibited from buying or selling any securities (other than its respective securities) from or to an affiliate. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain "joint" transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25.0% of the Company's voting securities, the Company is prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than its respective securities) from or to such person or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit the Company's ability to transact business with its respective officers or directors or its affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by any affiliate of the Investment Adviser without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to the Company. The Investment Adviser has significant potential conflicts of interest with the Company and, consequently, your interests as stockholders which could adversely impact our investment returns. The Company's executive officers and directors, as well as the current or future investment professionals of the Investment Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by the Company's affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in your interests as stockholders. Although we are currently New Mountain Capital's only vehicle focused primarily on investing in the investments that we target, in the future, the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser and/or New Mountain Capital employees that provide services pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement may manage other funds which may from time to time have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those targeted by us. If this occurs, the Investment Adviser may face conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities to the Company and such other funds. Although the investment professionals endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is possible that the Company may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by the Investment Adviser or persons affiliated with the Investment Adviser or that certain of these investment funds may be favored over the Company. When these investment professionals identify an investment, they may be forced to choose which investment fund should make the investment. If the Investment Adviser forms other affiliates in the future, the Company may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliate, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance or an exemptive order from the SEC and the Company's allocation procedures. In addition, the Company pays management and incentive fees to the Investment Adviser and reimburses the Investment Adviser for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in the Company's common stock invest in the Company on a "gross" basis and receive distributions on a "net" basis after the Company's expenses. Also, the incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to pursue investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangements. Any potential conflict of interest arising as a result of the arrangements with the Investment Adviser could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 39 Table of Contents The Investment Committee, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting the Company's investment discretion. The Investment Adviser's investment professionals, Investment Committee or their respective affiliates may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest. In the event that material non-public information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, the Company could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on the Company and your interests as stockholders. The valuation process for certain of the Company's portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. Some of the Company's portfolio investments are made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, the Company's board of directors determines the fair value of these securities in good faith. In connection with this determination, investment professionals from the Investment Adviser may provide the Company's board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, Steven B. Klinsky, a member of the Company's board of directors, has an indirect pecuniary interest in the Investment Adviser. The participation of the Investment Adviser's investment professionals in the Company's valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in the Investment Adviser by a member of the Company's board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the Investment Adviser's management fee is based, in part, on the Company's gross assets and incentive fees are based, in part, on unrealized gains and losses. Conflicts of interest may exist related to other arrangements with the Investment Adviser or its affiliates. The Company has entered into a royalty-free license agreement with New Mountain Capital under which New Mountain Capital has agreed to grant the Company a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name "New Mountain". In addition, the Company reimburses the Administrator for the allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations to the Company under the Administration Agreement, such as the allocable portion of the cost of the Company's chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This could create conflicts of interest that the Company's board of directors must monitor. The Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Adviser and the Administration Agreement with the Administrator were not negotiated on an arm's length basis. The Investment Management Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. In addition, the Company may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, its respective rights and remedies under these agreements because of its desire to maintain its ongoing relationship with the Investment Adviser, the Administrator and its respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, could cause the Company to breach its fiduciary obligations to its stockholders. The Investment Adviser's liability is limited under the Investment Management Agreement, and the Company has agreed to indemnify the Investment Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead the Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of the Company's board of directors in following or declining to follow the Investment Adviser's advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser, its officers, members, personnel, any person controlling or 40 Table of Contents controlled by the Investment Adviser are not liable for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of the Investment Adviser's duties under the Investment Management Agreement. In addition, the Company has agreed to indemnify the Investment Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Management Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Investment Management Agreement. These protections may lead the Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner than it would when acting for its own account. The Investment Adviser can resign upon 60 days' notice, and a suitable replacement may not be found within that time, resulting in disruptions in the Company's operations that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser has the right to resign at any time upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If the Investment Adviser resigns, the Company may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If a replacement is not able to be found on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition and the Company's ability to pay distributions are likely to be materially adversely affected and the market price of its common stock may decline. In addition, if the Company is unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the Investment Adviser and its affiliates, the coordination of its internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer. Even if the Company is able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, their integration into the Company's business and lack of familiarity with the Company's investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Administrator can resign upon 60 days' notice from its role as Administrator under the Administration Agreement, and a suitable replacement may not be found, resulting in disruptions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Administrator has the right to resign under the Administration Agreement upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If the Administrator resigns, it may be difficult to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If a replacement is not found quickly, our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the Company's ability to pay distributions, are likely to be adversely affected, and the market price of its common stock may decline. In addition, the coordination of the Company's internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if they are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by the Administrator. Even if a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services are retained, whether internal or external, their integration into the Company's business and lack of familiarity with the Company's investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents If the Company fails to maintain its status as a BDC, our business and operating flexibility could be significantly reduced. The Company qualifys as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70.0% of their total assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against the Company and/or expose the Company to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of the Company's stockholders, the Company may elect to withdraw its respective election as a BDC. If the Company decides to withdraw its election, or if the Company otherwise fails to qualify, or maintain its qualification, as a BDC, the Company may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with these regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility and could significantly increase our cost of doing business. If the Company does not invest a sufficient portion of its assets in qualifying assets, it could be precluded from investing in certain assets or could be required to dispose of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a BDC, the Company is prohibited from acquiring any assets other than "qualifying assets" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70.0% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We may acquire in the future other investments that are not "qualifying assets" to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. If the Company does not invest a sufficient portion of its assets in qualifying assets, it would be prohibited from investing in additional assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent the Company from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of its position) or could require the Company to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If the Company needs to dispose of these investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, the Company may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if a buyer is found, it may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. The Company's ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances. To maintain the Company's status as a BDC, the Company is not permitted to acquire any assets other than "qualifying assets" specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70.0% of its total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250.0 million at the time of such investment. Regulations governing the operations of BDCs will affect the Company's ability to raise additional equity capital as well as the Company's ability to issue senior securities or borrow for investment purposes, any or all of which could have a negative effect on our investment objectives and strategies. The Company's business requires a substantial amount of capital. The Company may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities, including borrowing under a credit facility or other indebtedness. In addition, the Company may also issue additional equity capital, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Company. However, the Company may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. 42 Table of Contents The Company may issue debt securities, preferred stock, and it may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities", up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits the Company to issue senior securities in amounts such that its asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200.0% after each issuance of senior securities. If the Company's asset coverage ratio is not at least 200.0%, it would be unable to issue senior securities, and if it had senior securities outstanding (other than any indebtedness issued in consideration of a privately arranged loan, such as any indebtedness outstanding under the Holdings Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility), it would be unable to make distributions to its stockholders. However, at December 31, 2014, the only senior securities outstanding were indebtedness under the Holdings Credit Facility, NMFC Credit Facility and Convertible Notes and therefore at December 31, 2014, the Company would not have been precluded from paying distributions. If the value of the Company's assets declines, the Company may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, the Company may be required to liquidate a portion of its investments and repay a portion of its indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. The Holdings Credit Facility matures on December 18, 2019 and permits borrowings of $495.0 million as of December 31, 2014. The Holdings Credit Facility had $468.1 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2014. The NMFC Credit Facility matures on June 4, 2019 and permits borrowings of $80.0 million as of December 31, 2014. The NMFC Credit Facility had $50.0 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2014. The Convertible Notes mature on June 15, 2019. The Convertible Notes had $115.0 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2014. In addition, the Company may in the future seek to securitize other portfolio securities to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, the Company would likely create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. The Company would then sell interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers and it would retain all or a portion of the equity in the subsidiary. If the Company is unable to successfully securitize its loan portfolio, which must be done in compliance with the relevant restrictions in the Holdings Credit Facility, its ability to grow its business or fully execute its business strategy could be impaired and our earnings, if any, could decrease. The securitization market is subject to changing market conditions and the Company may not be able to access this market when it would otherwise deem appropriate. Moreover, the successful securitization of the Company's portfolio might expose the Company to losses as the residual investments in which it does not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act also may impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. The Company may also obtain capital through the issuance of additional equity capital. As a BDC, the Company generally is not able to issue or sell its common stock at a price below net asset value per share. If the Company's common stock trades at a discount to its net asset value per share, this restriction could adversely affect its ability to raise equity capital. The Company may, however, sell its common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire its common stock, at a price below its net asset value per share of the common stock if its board of directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in its best interests and the best interests of its stockholders, and its stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which the Company's securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of the Company's board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any underwriting commission or discount). If the Company raises additional funds by issuing more shares of its common stock or if the Company issues senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, the Company's common stock, the percentage ownership of the stockholders may decline and you may experience dilution. 43 Table of Contents The Company's business model in the future may depend to an extent upon our referral relationships with private equity sponsors, and the inability of the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect its business strategy. If the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser fail to maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, the Company may not be able to grow its investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser have relationships are not obligated to provide the Company with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that any relationships they currently or may in the future have will generate investment opportunities for the Company. We may experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results due to the nature of our business. We could experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the ability or inability of the Company to make investments in companies that meet its investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities acquired and the default rate on such securities, the level of the Company's expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which the Company encounters competition in the markets in which it operates and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. The Company's board of directors may change its investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse to your interest as a stockholder. The Company's board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive certain of its operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. As a result, the Company's board of directors may be able to change its investment policies and objectives without any input from its stockholders. However, absent stockholder approval, the Company may not change the nature of its business so as to cease to be, or withdraw its election as, a BDC. Under Delaware law, the Company also cannot be dissolved without prior stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to the Company's current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the market price of NMFC's common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders. The Company will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on all of its respective income if it is unable to maintain RIC status under Subchapter M of the Code, which would have a material adverse effect on its financial performance. Although the Company intends to continue to qualify annually as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to maintain its RIC status. To maintain RIC status and be relieved of U.S. federal income taxes on income and gains distributed to its stockholders, the Company must meet the annual distribution, source-of-income and asset diversification requirements described below. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if the Company distributes to its stockholders on an annual basis at least 90.0% of its net ordinary income plus the excess of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long term capital losses, if any. Because the Company uses debt financing, the Company is subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act, and the Company is subject to certain financial covenants contained in the 44 Table of Contents Holdings Credit Facility and other debt financing agreements (as applicable). This asset coverage ratio requirement and these financial covenants could, under certain circumstances, restrict the Company from making distributions to its stockholders, which distributions are necessary for the Company to satisfy the distribution requirement. If the Company is unable to obtain cash from other sources, and thus is unable to make sufficient distributions to its stockholders, the Company could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to certain corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). • The source-of-income requirement will be satisfied if at least 90.0% of the Company's allocable share of its gross income for each year is derived from dividends, interest payments with respect to loans of certain securities, gains from the sale of stock or other securities, net income from certain "qualified publicly traded partnerships" or other income derived with respect to the Company's business of investing in such stock or securities. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if the Company meets certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of its taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50.0% of the value of the Company's assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other such securities if such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5.0% of the value of the Company's assets or more than 10.0% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer; and no more than 25.0% of the value of the Company's assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by the Company and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain "qualified publicly traded partnerships". Failure to meet these requirements may result in the Company having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of the Company's RIC status. Because most of the Company's investments are intended to be in private companies, and therefore may be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If the Company fails to qualify for or maintain its RIC status for any reason, and it does not qualify for certain relief provisions under the Code, the Company would be subject to certain corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). In this event, the resulting taxes could substantially reduce the Company's net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of its distributions, which would have a material adverse effect on its financial performance. You may have current tax liabilities on distributions you reinvest in common stock of NMFC. Under the dividend reinvestment plan, if you own shares of common stock of NMFC registered in your own name, you will have all cash distributions automatically reinvested in additional shares of common stock of NMFC unless you opt out of the dividend reinvestment plan by delivering notice by phone, internet or in writing to the plan administrator at least three days prior to the payment date of the next dividend or distribution. If you have not "opted out" of the dividend reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in common stock of NMFC to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your U.S. federal income tax liability on the value of the common stock received. 45 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to pay you distributions on its common stock, its distributions to you may not grow over time and a portion of its distributions to you may be a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company intends to pay quarterly distributions to its stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve investment results that will allow the Company to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If the Company is unable to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to it as a BDC, or if it violates certain covenants under the Holdings Credit Facility and the NMFC Credit Facility, the Company's ability to pay distributions to its stockholders could be limited. All distributions are paid at the discretion of the Company's board of directors and depend on its earnings, financial condition, maintenance of the Company's RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, compliance with covenants under the Holdings Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility, and such other factors as the Company's board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. The distributions that the Company pays to its stockholders in a year may exceed its taxable income for that year and, accordingly, a portion of such distributions may constitute a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company may have difficulty paying its required distributions if the Company recognizes taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company includes in its taxable income its allocable share of certain amounts that the Company has not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount or accruals on a contingent payment debt instrument, which may occur if the Company receives warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances or contracted payment-in-kind ("PIK") interest, which generally represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. The Company's allocable share of such original issue discount and PIK interest are included in its taxable income before the Company receives any corresponding cash payments. The Company also may be required to include in its taxable income its allocable share of certain other amounts that the Company will not receive in cash. Because in certain cases the Company may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, the Company may have difficulty making distributions to its stockholders that will be sufficient to enable the Company to meet the annual distribution requirement necessary to qualify as a RIC. Accordingly, the Company may need to sell some of its assets at times and/or at prices that it would not consider advantageous, the Company may need to raise additional equity or debt capital, or the Company may need to forego new investment opportunities or otherwise take actions that are disadvantageous to its business (or be unable to take actions that are advantageous to its business) to enable the Company to make distributions to its stockholders that will be sufficient to enable the Company to meet the annual distribution requirement. If the Company is unable to obtain cash from other sources to enable it to meet the annual distribution requirement, the Company may fail to qualify for the U.S. federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to certain corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). 46 Table of Contents Changes in laws or regulations governing the Company's operations may adversely affect our business or cause the Company to alter its business strategy. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. The Company's portfolio companies are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including with respect to the types of investments the Company is permitted to make, and your interest as a stockholder potentially with retroactive effect. In addition, any changes to the laws and regulations governing the Company's operations relating to permitted investments may cause the Company to alter its investment strategy in order to avail itself of new or different opportunities. These changes could result in material changes to the strategies and may result in the Company's investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of the Investment Adviser to other types of investments in which the Investment Adviser may have less expertise or little or no experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, the value of your investment in us. On July 21, 2010, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. Although passage of the Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in extensive rulemaking and regulatory changes that affect the Company and the financial industry as a whole, many of its provisions remain subject to extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company and the Company's portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the Company's or the Company's portfolio companies operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on the Company or the Company's portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of the Company or the Company's portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business or the business of the Company's portfolio companies. Over the last several years, there has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether these regulations will be implemented or what form they will take, increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could negatively impact the Company's operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on the Company, intensify the regulatory supervision of the Company or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of the Company's portfolio companies. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of the Company's portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of the Company's portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of the Company's portfolio companies' financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. 47 Table of Contents Pending legislation may allow the Company to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act the Company generally is not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing the Company has an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200.0% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50.0% of the value of the Company's total assets or the Company may borrow an amount equal to 100.0% of net assets). Legislation introduced in Congress, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the percentage from 200.0% to 150.0%. As a result, the Company may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in the Company's common stock may increase. The Company incurs significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, the Company incurs legal, accounting and other expenses, which are paid by the Company, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act," and other rules implemented by the SEC. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect the Company and the market price of its common stock. The Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Under current SEC rules since its fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the Company's management has been required to report on its internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. The Company is required to review on an annual basis its internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in its internal control over financial reporting. As a result, the Company expects to continue to incur additional expenses, which may negatively impact the Company's financial performance and the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders. This process also may result in a diversion of management's time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of any evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and the Company is not able to ensure that the process is effective or that its internal control over financial reporting is or will continue to be effective in a timely manner. In the event that the Company is unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, the Company and, consequently, the market price of its common stock may be adversely affected. The Company's business is highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of the Company's common stock and its ability to pay dividends. The Company's business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of the Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Any failure or interruption of such systems could cause delays or other problems in the Company's activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and, consequently, negatively affect the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. In addition, because many of the Company's portfolio companies operate and rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications and internal technology systems for development, marketing, operational, support and other business activities, a disruption or failure of any or all of these systems in the event of a major telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, fire, earthquake, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic event could cause system 48 Table of Contents interruptions, delays in product development and loss of critical data and could otherwise disrupt their business operations. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in the Company's disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair the Company's ability to conduct business effectively. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in the Company's disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to conduct business and on the Company's results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect the Company's computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of the Company's managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, the Company's ability to effectively conduct its business could be severely compromised. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite the Company's implementation of a variety of security measures, its computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, the Company may experience threats to its data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Company's computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in its operations, which could result in damage to the Company's reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S INVESTMENTS The Company's investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and the Company could lose all or part of any of its investments. Investments in small and middle market businesses are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk of credit loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, such as the U.S. and many other economies have recently experienced. Among other things, these companies: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that the Company holds, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of the Company realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of its portfolio companies that the Company may have obtained in connection with its investment, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of any equity components of its investments; • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or more significant customer concentrations than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the Company's portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence; 49 Table of Contents • may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of the Company's portfolio companies, certain of the Company's officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of the Company's investments in these companies, the Company's officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through the Company's indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources. The Company's investment strategy, which is focused primarily on privately held companies, presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. The Company invests primarily in privately held companies. There is generally little public information about these companies, and, as a result, the Company must rely on the ability of the Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from, and risks related to, investing in these companies. If the Company is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and it may lose money on its investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. They are, thus, generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. These factors could adversely affect the Company's investment returns. The Company's investments in securities rated below investment grade are speculative in nature and are subject to additional risk factors such as increased possibility of default, illiquidity of the security, and changes in value based on changes in interest rates. The Company's investments are typically rated below investment grade. Securities rated below investment grade are often referred to as "leveraged loans," "high yield" or "junk" securities, and may be considered "high risk" compared to debt instruments that are rated investment grade. High yield securities are regarded as having predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal in accordance with the terms of the obligations and involve major risk exposure to adverse conditions. In addition, high yield securities generally offer a higher current yield than that available from higher grade issues, but typically involve greater risk. These securities are especially sensitive to adverse changes in general economic conditions, to changes in the financial condition of their issuers and to price fluctuation in response to changes in interest rates. During periods of economic downturn or rising interest rates, issuers of below investment grade instruments may experience financial stress that could adversely affect their ability to make payments of principal and interest and increase the possibility of default. The Company's portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries, which may subject the Company to a risk of significant loss if there is a downturn in a particular industry in which a number of its investments are concentrated. The Company's portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries. For example, as of December 31, 2014, the Company's investments in the software, the business services and the education industries represented approximately 20.2%, 18.3% and 17.7%, respectively, of the fair value of the Company's portfolio. A downturn in any particular industry in which the Company is invested could significantly impact the portfolio companies operating in that industry, and accordingly, the aggregate returns that the Company realizes from its investment in such portfolio companies. 50 Table of Contents Specifically, companies in the software industry often have narrow product lines and small market shares. Because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by software companies have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the average selling prices of products and services offered by software companies in which we invest may decrease over time. In addition, companies in the business services industry are subject to general economic downturns and business cycles, and will often suffer reduced revenues and rate pressures during periods of economic uncertainty. Likewise, companies in the education industry are required to comply with extensive regulatory and accreditation requirements, which could be subject to change by Congress, and which can limit their access to federal aid or similar loan programs, or otherwise increase their compliance costs. If an industry in which the Company has significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, as these industries have to varying degrees, a material portion of its investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect the Company's financial position and results of operations. Continuation of the current decline in oil and natural gas prices for a prolonged period of time could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Approximately 5.9% of the Company's portfolio at fair value is invested in energy-related businesses. A decline in oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect the credit quality of these investments. A decrease in credit quality would, in turn, negatively affect the fair value of these investments, which would consequently negatively affect the Company's financial position and results of operations. Should the current decline in oil and natural gas prices persist, it is likely that the Company's energy-related portfolio companies' abilities to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by the Company or other lenders will be adversely affected, thereby negatively impacting the Company's financial condition and their ability to satisfy their debt service and other obligations to the Company. If the Company makes unsecured investments, those investments might not generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt obligations to the Company. The Company may make unsecured investments. Unsecured investments may be subordinated to other obligations of the obligor. Unsecured investments often reflect a greater possibility that adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or general economic conditions (including, for example, a substantial period of rising interest rates or declining earnings) or both may impair the ability of the obligor to make payment of principal and interest. If the Company makes an unsecured investment in a portfolio company, that portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may increase the risk that its operations might not generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations. If the Company invests in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, it might not receive interest or other payments. From time to time, the Company may invest in other types of investments which are not its primary focus, including investments in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. Such investments generally are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer of those obligations might not make any interest or other payments. The lack of liquidity in the Company's investments may adversely affect our business. The Company invests, and will continue to invest, in companies whose securities are not publicly traded and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be 51 Table of Contents less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for the Company to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if the Company is required or otherwise chooses to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, it may realize significantly less than the value at which it had previously recorded these investments. The Company's investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. Because most of the Company's investments are illiquid, the Company may be unable to dispose of them in which case the Company could fail to qualify as a RIC and/or a BDC, or the Company may be unable to do so at a favorable price, and, as a result, the Company may suffer losses. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of the Company's portfolio investments, reducing the Company's net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, the Company is required to carry its investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors. As part of the valuation process, the Company may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of its investments: • a comparison of the portfolio company's securities to publicly traded securities; • the enterprise value of a portfolio company; • the nature and realizable value of any collateral; • the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow; • the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and • changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent sale occurs, the Company will use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate its valuation. The Company will record decreases in the market values or fair values of its investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in its portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on the Company's portfolio may reduce the Company's net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in the Company's portfolio. Depending on market conditions, the Company could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Company is unable to make follow-on investments in its portfolio companies, the value of the Company's investment portfolio could be adversely affected. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, the Company may make additional investments in that portfolio company as "follow-on" investments, in order to (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part its equity ownership percentage, (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of its investment. The Company may elect not to make follow-on investments or may otherwise lack sufficient funds to make these investments. The Company has the discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. If the Company fails to make follow-on investments, the continued viability of a portfolio company and its investment may, in some circumstances, be jeopardized and we could miss an opportunity for the Company to increase its participation in a successful operation. Even if the Company has sufficient capital to make a desired 52 Table of Contents follow-on investment, it may elect not to make a follow-on investment because it may not want to increase its concentration of risk, either because it prefers other opportunities or because it is subject to BDC requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments or such follow-on investments would adversely impact its ability to maintain its RIC status. The Company's portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, its investments in such companies. The Company invests in portfolio companies at all levels of the capital structure. The Company's portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which the Company invests. By their terms, these debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which the Company is entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which it invests. In addition, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to the Company's investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before it receives any distribution. After repaying the senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to the Company. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which the Company invests, it would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. The disposition of the Company's investments may result in contingent liabilities. Most of the Company's investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, the Company may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. The Company may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through the Company's return of certain distributions previously made to it. There may be circumstances where the Company's debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or the Company could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though the Company may have structured certain of its investments as senior loans, if one of its portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which the Company actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize its debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of the Company's claim to that of other creditors. The Company may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by it with respect to a borrower's business or instances where it exercises control over the borrower. It is possible that the Company could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that the Company makes to its portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and the Company. Certain loans to portfolio companies will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements 53 Table of Contents governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before the Company. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then the Company, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any. The rights the Company may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans it makes to its portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements entered into with the holders of first priority senior debt. Under an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings, the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. The Company may not have the ability to control or direct these actions, even if its rights are adversely affected. The Company generally does not control its portfolio companies. The Company does not, and does not expect to, control most of its portfolio companies, even though the Company may have board representation or board observation rights, and its debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants that limit the business and operations of its portfolio companies. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which the Company disagrees and the management of such company, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve the Company's interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity of the investments that the Company typically holds in its portfolio companies, it may not be able to dispose of its investments in the event that the Company disagrees with the actions of a portfolio company as readily as it would otherwise like to or at favorable prices which could decrease the value of its investments. Economic recessions, downturns or government spending cuts could impair the Company's portfolio companies and harm its operating results. Many of the Company's portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay its debt investments during these periods. Therefore, the Company's non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of the Company's portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of the Company's debt investments and the value of its equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in the Company's portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase the Company's funding costs, limit the Company's access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Company. These events could prevent the Company from increasing investments and harm its operating results. 54 Table of Contents A number of the Company's portfolio companies provide services to the U.S. government. Changes in the U.S. government's priorities and spending, or significant delays or reductions in appropriations of the U.S. government's funds, could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of such portfolio companies. A number of the Company's portfolio companies derive a substantial portion of their revenue from the U.S. government. Levels of the U.S. government's spending in future periods are very difficult to predict and subject to significant risks. In addition, significant budgetary constraints may result in further reductions to projected spending levels. In particular, U.S. government expenditures are subject to the potential for automatic reductions, generally referred to as "sequestration." Sequestration occurred during 2013, and may occur again in the future, resulting in significant additional reductions to spending by the U.S. government on both existing and new contracts as well as disruption of ongoing programs. Even if sequestration does not occur again in the future, we expect that budgetary constraints and ongoing concerns regarding the U.S. national debt will continue to place downward pressure on U.S. government spending levels. Due to these and other factors, overall U.S. government spending could decline, which could result in significant reductions to the revenues, cash flow and profits of the Company's portfolio companies that provide services to the U.S. government. Defaults by the Company's portfolio companies may harm its operating results. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by the Company or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that the Company holds. The Company may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that the Company could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if it renders significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Furthermore, if one of the Company's portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, even though the Company may have structured its investment as senior secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which the Company provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize its debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of the Company's claim to claims of other creditors. Prepayments of the Company's debt investments by its portfolio companies could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and reduce its return on equity. The Company is subject to the risk that the investments it makes in its portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, subject to maintenance of the Company's RIC status, the Company will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending its future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and the Company could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, the Company's results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to the Company. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact the Company's return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of its common stock. 55 Table of Contents The Company may not realize gains from its equity investments. When the Company invests in portfolio companies, it may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. The Company may also invest in equity securities directly. To the extent the Company holds equity investments, it will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon its disposition of them. However, the equity interests the Company receives may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. As a result, the Company may not be able to realize gains from its equity interests, and any gains that it does realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses it experiences. The Company also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow the Company to sell the underlying equity interests. The performance of the Company's portfolio companies may differ from its historical performance as its current investment strategy includes significantly more primary originations in addition to secondary market purchases. Historically, the Company's investment strategy consisted primarily of secondary market purchases in debt securities. The Company adjusted its investment strategy to also include significantly more primary originations. While loans the Company originates and loans it purchases in the secondary market face many of the same risks associated with the financing of leveraged companies, the Company may be exposed to different risks depending on specific business considerations for secondary market purchases or origination of loans. Primary originations require substantially more time and resources for sourcing, diligencing and monitoring investments, which may consume a significant portion of the Company's resources. Further, the valuation process for primary originations may be more cumbersome and uncertain due to the lack of comparable market quotes for the investment and would likely require more frequent review by a third-party valuation firm. This may result in greater costs for the Company and fluctuations in the quarterly valuations of investments that are primary originations. As a result, this strategy may result in different returns from these investments than the types of returns the Company has historically experienced from secondary market purchases of debt securities. The Company may be subject to additional risks if it invests in foreign securities and/or engages in hedging transactions. The 1940 Act generally requires that 70.0% of the Company's investments be in issuers each of whom is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, any state of the U.S., the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any other possession of the U.S. The Company's investment strategy does not presently contemplate significant investments in securities of non-U.S. companies. However, the Company may desire to make such investments in the future, to the extent that such transactions and investments are permitted under the 1940 Act. The Company expects that these investments would focus on the same types of investments that it makes in U.S. middle market companies and accordingly would be complementary to its overall strategy and enhance the diversity of its holdings. Investing in foreign companies could expose the Company to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Investments denominated in foreign currencies would be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for 56 Table of Contents investment and capital appreciation and political developments. The Company may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but it can offer no assurance that it will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or that if it does, such strategies will be effective. Engaging in hedging transactions would also, indirectly, entail additional risks to the Company's stockholders. Although it is not currently anticipated that the Company would engage in hedging transactions as a principal investment strategy, if the Company determined to engage in hedging transactions it generally would seek to hedge against fluctuations of the relative values of its portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates or currency exchange rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of the Company's portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of the positions declined. However, such hedging could establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. These hedging transactions could also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions increased. Moreover, it might not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that was so generally anticipated that the Company would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. If the Company chooses to engage in hedging transactions, there can be no assurances that the Company will achieve the intended benefits of such transactions and, depending on the degree of exposure such transactions could create, such transactions may expose the Company to risk of loss. While the Company may enter into these types of transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged could vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, the Company might not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any imperfect correlation could prevent the Company from achieving the intended hedge and expose the Company to risk of loss. In addition, it might not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities would likely fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process may adversely affect the value of the Company's portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. Concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers' Association ("BBA") in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. Actions by the BBA, regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including the Company's portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, 57 Table of Contents which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of the Company's portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S SECURITIES The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of the Company's common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to the Company's operating performance. These factors include: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or in the market for BDCs from time to time; • investor demand for shares of its common stock; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered closed-end management investment companies, BDCs or other financial services companies, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • the inability to raise equity capital; • the Company's inability to borrow money or deploy or invest its capital; • fluctuations in interest rates; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • operating performance of companies comparable to the Company; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or BDCs; • the Company's loss of status as or ability to operate as a BDC; • the Company's failure to qualify as a RIC, loss of RIC status or ability to operate as a RIC; • actual or anticipated changes in the Company's earnings or fluctuations in its operating results; • changes in the value of the Company's portfolio of investments; • general economic conditions, trends and other external factors; • departures of key personnel; or • loss of a major source of funding. In addition, the Company is required to continue to meet certain listing standards in order for its common stock to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). If the Company were to be delisted by the NYSE, the liquidity of its common stock would be materially impaired. Investing in the Company's common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments the Company may make may result in a higher amount of risk, volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. These investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in the Company's common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. 58 Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock could materially adversely affect the prevailing market prices for its common stock. If substantial amounts of the Company's common stock were sold, this could impair its ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should the Company desire to do so. Certain provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as aspects of the Delaware General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of the Company's common stock. The Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. Among other things, the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • provide for a classified board of directors, which may delay the ability of its stockholders to change the membership of a majority of its board of directors; • authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by its board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • do not provide for cumulative voting; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • provide that its directors may be removed only for cause; • require supermajority voting to effect certain amendments to its certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of the Company's common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for its common stock. The Holdings Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility also include covenants that, among other things, restrict its ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. The Holdings Credit Facility and NMFC Credit Facility also include change of control provisions that accelerate the indebtedness under these facilities in the event of certain change of control events. Shares of the Company's common stock have traded at a discount from net asset value and may do so in the future. Shares of closed-end investment companies have frequently traded at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. In part as a result of adverse economic conditions and increasing pressure within the financial sector of which the Company is a part, its common stock has at times traded below its net asset value per share since the Company's IPO on May 19, 2011. The Company's shares could once again trade at a discount to net asset value. The possibility that its shares of common stock may trade at a discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that the Company's net asset value will decrease. The Company cannot predict whether shares of its common stock will trade above, at or below its net asset 59 Table of Contents value. If its common stock trades below its net asset value, the Company will generally not be able to issue additional shares of its common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from its stockholders and its independent directors. If additional funds are not available to the Company, the Company could be forced to curtail or cease the Company's new lending and investment activities, and the Company's net asset value could decrease and the Company's level of distributions could be impacted. You may not receive dividends or the Company's dividends may decline or may not grow over time. The Company cannot assure you that the Company will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In particular, the Company's future dividends are dependent upon the investment income it receives on the Company's portfolio investments. To the extent such investment income declines, the Company's ability to pay future dividends may be harmed. If the Company issues preferred stock, the net asset value and market value of its common stock will likely become more volatile. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of the Company's common stock. The issuance of preferred stock would likely cause the net asset value and market value of the common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to approach the net rate of return on the Company's investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of the common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to exceed the net rate of return on the Company's portfolio, the leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued preferred stock. Any decline in the net asset value of the Company's investments would be borne entirely by the holders of common stock. Therefore, if the market value of the Company's portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This greater net asset value decrease would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for the common stock. We might be in danger of failing to maintain the required asset coverage of the preferred stock or of losing our ratings, if any, on the preferred stock or, in an extreme case, the Company's current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund a redemption of some or all of the preferred stock. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, including higher advisory fees if the Company's total return exceeds the dividend rate on the preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs. Holders of any preferred stock the Company might issue would have the right to elect members of our board of directors and class voting rights on certain matters. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue, voting separately as a single class, would have the right to elect two members of our board of directors at all times and in the event dividends become two full years in arrears would have the right to elect a majority of the directors until such arrearage is completely eliminated. In addition, preferred stockholders have class voting rights on certain matters, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status, and accordingly can veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of the Company's common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, if any, or the terms of the Company's credit facilities, if any, might impair the Company's ability to maintain its qualification as a 60 Table of Contents RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. While we would intend to redeem the Company's preferred stock to the extent necessary to enable the Company to distribute its income as required to maintain our qualification as a RIC, there can be no assurance that such actions could be effected in time to meet the tax requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 