D. Risk factors 3 Item 4. Information On The Company 15 A. History and Development of The Company 15 B. Business overview 16 C. Organizational structure 26 D. Property, plants and equipment 26 Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects 27 Item 6. Directors, Senior Management And Employees 44 A. Directors and senior management 44 B. Compensation 45 C. Board practices 47 D. Employees 49 E. Share ownership 49 Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Transactions 50 A. Major shareholders 50 B. Related party transactions 50 C. Interests of experts and counsel 51 Item 8. Financial Information 52 A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 52 B. Significant Changes 52 Item 9. The Offer and Listing 52 A. Offer and listing details 52 B. Plan of distribution 52 C. Markets 52 D. Selling shareholders 53 E. Dilution 54 F. Expenses of the issue 54 Item 10. Additional Information 54 A. Share capital 54 B. Memorandum and articles of association 54 C. Material contracts 54 D. Exchange controls 54 E. Taxation 54 F. Dividends and paying agents 62 G. Statement by experts 63 H. Documents on display 63 I. Subsidiary Information 63 Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 64 Item 12. Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities 64 PART II Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages And Delinquencies 65 Item 14. Material Modifications To The Rights Of Security Holders And Use Of Proceeds 65 Item 15. Controls and Procedures 65 Item 16 [Reserved] 66 Item 16A — Audit Committee Financial Expert 66 Item 16B — Code of Ethics 66 Item 16C — Principal Accountant Fees and Services 66 Item 16D — Exemption from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 66 Item 16E — Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 66 Item 16F — Change in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant 67 Item 16G — Corporate Governance 67 Item 16H — Mine Safety Disclosure 67 PART III Item 17 Financial Statements 68 Item 18. Financial Statements 68 Item 19 Exhibits 68 Signatures 69 Table of Contents CERTAIN INFORMATION As used in this Annual Report on Form 20-F (the “Annual Report”), references to: ·“we,” “MOKO,” “us,” “our,” “the Company,” or “our company” are to MOKO Social Media Ltd, including its subsidiaries; ·“ordinary shares” are to our ordinary shares, no par value; ·“ADSs” or “American Depositary Shares” are to our American Depositary Shares each representing forty ordinary shares; ·“ASX” are to the Australian Stock Exchange or ASX; and ·“NASDAQ” are to the Nasdaq Global Market. In this Annual Report on Form 20-F, references to “Australia” are to the Commonwealth of Australia. References to “$,” “USD,” “dollars,” “USD$” or “U.S. dollars” are to the legal currency of the United States and references to “A$,” or “Australian Dollars” are to the legal currency of Australia. Solely for the convenience of the reader, this Annual Report on Form 20-F contains translations of certain Australian dollar amounts into U.S. dollars at specified rates. Except as otherwise stated in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, all translations from Australian dollars to U.S. dollars are based on the noon buying rate of A$1.00 per $0.9427 in the City of New York for cable transfers of Australian dollars, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on June 30, 2014. No representation is made that Australian dollar amounts referred to in this Annual Report on Form 20-F could have been or could be converted into U.S. dollars at such rates or any other rates. Any discrepancies in any table between totals and sums of the amounts listed are due to rounding. The audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as of and for fiscal 2014 and 2013 included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). References to a particular “fiscal year” are to our fiscal year ended June 30 of that year. Our fiscal quarters end on September 30, December 31 and March 31. References to a year other than a “fiscal” year are to the calendar year ended December 31. We also refer in various places within this Annual Report on Form 20-F to “EBITDA,” which is a non-IFRS measure and is more fully explained in the section titled “Non-IFRS Financial Measure” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The presentation of this non-IFRS information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial results prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains many statements that are “forward-looking” and uses forward-looking terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “may,” “ought to,” “plan,” “possible,” “potentially,” “predicts,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” negatives of such terms or other similar statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement due to its inherent risk and uncertainties, both general and specific. Although we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable and within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations as of the date of this Annual Report, any or all of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate. As a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions could also be incorrect. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include, without limitation, statements relating to: ·our goals and strategies; ·our future business development, results of operations and financial condition; ·our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; ·projected revenues, profits, earnings and other estimated financial information; ·our ability to maintain strong relationships with our customers and suppliers; i Table of Contents ·our planned use of proceeds; and ·governmental policies regarding our industry. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our businesses and business environments. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results of our operations may differ materially from information contained in the forward-looking statements as a result of risk factors, some of which are described under the headings ‘‘Risk Factors’’, ‘‘Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,’’ ‘‘Information on our Company” and elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, among other things: ·failure of our new products to attract a sufficient number of social groups to our mobile platforms; ·failure of advertisers to use us to reach their target audience even if our mobile social platforms are widely adopted by user groups; ·risks relating to generating almost all of our revenue from advertising; ·our incurrence of net losses since our inception and our anticipation that we will continue to incur net losses in the future; ·our ability to continue as a going concern; ·failure to maintain the resources and expertise necessary to keep up with the latest technologies in the industries in which we operate; ·dependence on the continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the Internet by our partner’s users and advertisers; ·failure to identify suitable targets, acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them in accordance with our business strategy of making acquisitions; ·reliance on computer software and hardware systems to manage our operations; ·our business being subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations and self-regulatory principles and frameworks internationally; ·privacy concerns relating to our products and services which could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using our products; and ·our need for additional capital and whether we may be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all. These risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of this Annual Report or, if obtained from third-party studies or reports, the date of the corresponding study or report, and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this Annual Report. Since we operate in an emerging and evolving environment and new risk factors and uncertainties emerge from time to time, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Except as otherwise required by the securities laws of the United States and Australia, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS A.Directors and Senior Management Not required. B.Advisers Not required. C.Auditors Not required. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not required. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. Selected financial data The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 5 - the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Certain factors that affect the comparability of the information set forth in the following table are described in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2014 2013 2012 A$ USD$ A$ A$ Statement of Profit or Loss Data Revenue from continuing operations 8,228,151 7,756,678 6,020,593 1,722,484 Other income and revenue 386,998 364,823 8,813 62,627 Fair value gain on deferred consideration 383,933 361,934 1,829,653 - Expenses (23,649,446) (22,294,333) (13,560,947) (6,234,297) Loss before income tax expense from continuing operations (14,650,364) (13,810,898) (5,701,888) (4,449,186) Income tax benefit 1,053,905 993,516 990,594 565,849 Loss after income tax benefit from continuing operations (13,596,459) (12,817,382) (4,711,294) (3,883,337) (Loss)/profit after income tax benefit from discontinued operations - - (1,566,785) 1,451,091 Loss after income tax for the year (13,596,459) (12,817,382) (6,278,079) (2,432,246) Other comprehensive income: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (244,676) (230,656) 853,663 - Total comprehensive loss for the year (13,841,135) (13,048,038) (5,424,416) (2,432,246) Total comprehensive loss for the year is attributable to: Continuing operations (13,841,135) (13,048,038) (3,857,631) (3,883,337) Discontinued operations - - (1,566,785) 1,451,091 Owners of MOKO Social Media Limited (13,472,361) (12,700,395) (5,424,416) (2,432,246) Loss attributable to: Owners of the Company (13,472,361) (12,700,395) (6,278,079) (2,432,246) Non-controlling interests (124,098) (116,987) - - Total comprehensive loss attributable to: Owners of the Company (13,717,037) (12,931,051) (5,424,416) (2,432,246) Non-controlling interests (124,098) (116,987) - - Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to the owners of MOKO Social Media Limited: Basic / Diluted EPS (2.85) (2.69) (1.54) (3.00) 1 Table of Contents As of June 30 2014 2013 2012 A$ USD$ A$ A$ Statement of Financial Position Data Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 9,878,011 9,312,001 2,519,186 1,573,783 Trade and other receivables 784,872 739,899 823,898 2,677,021 Other current assets 441,696 416,387 153,236 341,718 Total current assets 11,104,579 10,468,287 3,496,320 4,592,522 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 87,726 82,699 72,662 793,339 Intangibles 3,613,433 3,406,383 4,410,248 974,681 Deferred tax assets 427,719 403,211 - - Total non-current assets 4,128,878 3,892,293 4,482,910 1,768,020 Total assets 15,233,457 14,360,580 7,979,230 6,360,542 Current liabilities Deferred consideration - - 1,430,252 - Trade and other payables 2,563,611 2,416,716 1,814,544 2,141,895 Borrowings - - 1,136,390 - Employee benefits 276,920 261,052 134,048 207,054 Provisions - - 264,912 - Income tax provision 740,880 698,428 279,808 - Total current liabilities 3,581,411 3,376,196 5,059,954 2,348,949 Non-current liabilities Employee benefits 35,348 33,323 45,904 29,714 Deferred tax liability - - - 89,750 Total non-current liabilities 35,348 33,323 45,904 119,464 Total liabilities 3,616,759 3,409,519 5,105,858 2,468,413 Net assets 11,616,698 10,951,061 2,873,372 3,892,129 Equity Issued capital 41,679,662 39,291,417 24,656,473 20,685,557 Reserves 8,990,804 8,475,631 3,674,208 2,385,802 Accumulated losses (38,929,670) (36,699,000) (25,457,309) (19,179,230) Non-controlling interest (124,098) (116,987) - - Total equity 11,616,698 10,951,061 2,873,372 3,892,129 The total outstanding ordinary shares at June 30, 2014, is 552,853,091 (2013: 374,873,050). The total Performance Shares outstanding at June 30, 2014, is 20,000,000 (2013: nil). 2 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information concerning exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar for the periods indicated based on the noon buying rate in the City of New York for cable transfers of Australian dollars, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. As of September 30, 2014, the noon buying rate was A$0.8737 per $1.00. A$ Per USD$ Year Ended High Low June 30, 2010 0.9359 0.7751 June 30, 2011 1.0803 0.8380 June 30, 2012 1.1026 0.9453 June 30, 2013 1.0573 0.9165 June 30, 2014 0.9705 0.8715 Month Ended April 2014 0.9424 0.9219 May 2014 0.9382 0.9257 June 2014 0.9430 0.9250 July 2014 0.9488 0.9301 August 2014 0.9352 0.9263 September 2014 0.9376 0.8737 B.Capitalization and Indebtedness Not required. C .Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not required. D.Risk factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to predict our future prospects and results of operations. Our current level of operations did not develop until early 2013. As a result, our operating history is limited and, accordingly, the revenue and income potential of our business and markets are unproven. Our historical operating results do not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects, particularly in view of the fact that the last two years of operations were of businesses that have since ceased operations or been sold to other companies. We also face numerous risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at an early stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: ·develop new customers or new business from existing customers; ·expand the technical sophistication of the products and services we offer; ·respond effectively to competitive pressures; and ·attract and retain qualified management and employees. 3 Table of Contents We may not meet internal or external expectations regarding our future performance. If we are not successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our new products could fail to attract a sufficient number of social groups to our mobile platforms and we may not be able to retain organizations that are attracted to our platforms. In order to create a meaningful level of activity in our target social groups, we need to attract and retain large user groups interested in our mobile social applications. Our ability to convince these social groups to adopt our mobile platform will depend in part on our ability to create successful new products and services. We may also introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience, which could affect users continued use of the products we develop. For example, in 2013, we began to develop REC*IT, a mobile application that includes a variety of social features and tools including the ability to register for team activities, check schedules, player standings, scores and individual performances and post photos and other content related to collegiate intramural sports. There can be no assurance that we will continue to identify and partner with social groups of the size and demographics that may be attractive to potential advertising customers. Even if we are able to attract groups and organizations to our platform, there can be no assurance that they will continue to use our platform, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Even if our mobile social platforms are widely adopted by user groups, advertisers may determine not to use us to reach their target audience, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent upon the aggregation of significant numbers of users of our mobile social platforms and the attractiveness of the market they represent to advertisers. Our business model involves our development of mobile social platforms for user groups that we provide to the groups at no cost in exchange for the right to include advertisements in the content hosted on our platform. If our new or enhanced products or services fail to engage the targeted social groups, or we fail to attract or retain sufficient mobile communities to generate sufficient interest with potential advertising customers, we may not generate the revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business, operating results and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may invest in new products, services and initiatives to generate revenue or profit, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. We expect to generate almost all of our revenue from advertising. The inability to attract advertisers, or a general reduction in spending by advertisers, would harm our business and prospects. We expect to generate almost all of our revenue from third parties advertising on our platforms. As is typical in our industry, we do not expect that we will have long-term commitments from advertisers, and our advertisers will spend only a relatively small portion of their advertising budget with us. If our platforms do not deliver ads in an effective manner, advertisers will not do business with us or will not be willing to pay the rates we anticipate, which would harm our business and prospects. Our ability to generate advertising revenue also could be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including: ·our inability to attract communities who desire to partner with us; ·lower than expected engagement by members of the communities with whom we partner; ·our ability to effectively manage advertising inventory for platforms we develop; ·the emergence of new competitors in our industry or our inability to effectively compete with existing competitors; ·adverse legal developments relating to mobile advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments in litigation; ·adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us, our partners, or other companies in our industry; ·changes in the way online advertising is priced; 4 Table of Contents ·the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of ads we place; and ·the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry generally. Our legacy operations incurred net losses since their respective inceptions and we anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses in the future. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been derived from the provision of mobile content product and services from businesses we no longer operate and which historically incurred net losses. We incurred losses from continuing operations of A$13.6 million ($12.8 million), and A$4.7 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. From our inception in 2004 through June 30, 2014, we have aggregate accumulated losses of A$38.9 million ($36.7 million). We expect our losses to continue as a result of ongoing project development, increased selling, marketing and corporate support costs. These losses have decreased our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ equity. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our recent strategic focus on customized mobile social advertising development and the related commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict whether or not we will become profitable, and if so, when. User growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. We plan to make our products available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. We will be dependent on the interoperability of our products with popular devices, mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as Mac OS, Windows, Android, iOS, Chrome and Firefox. Any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our products and services or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our products. Further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it is likely to result in an increase in our operating expenses. In order to deliver high quality products, it is important that our products work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. In addition, because our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. In the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the resources and expertise necessary to keep up with the latest technologies in the industries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The social media industry is characterized by continuing rapid technological advancement, changes in customer requirements, and evolving product standards. Accordingly, we devote a substantial amount of resources to product development. To compete successfully, we must develop and market new products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. Product development is highly uncertain and we cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop new products. Our inability to develop and market these products or to achieve customer acceptance of these products could limit our ability to compete in the market or to grow revenues at satisfactory rates of growth. If the design, manufacturing or marketing of a product offering is not successful and we must allocate more resources to ensure the product’s success, it could lower the profitability of the product or affect customer perception as to the quality of the products we offer. 5 Table of Contents Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the Internet by our partner’s users and advertisers. If we or partners or the users experience disruptions in Internet service or if Internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the possible loss of users and advertisers. We depend on the ability of our users and advertisers to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the Internet access marketplace, including incumbent mobile communications companies, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws or practices limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and materially adversely affect our operating results. We also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the Internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. The failure of the Internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. Our business strategy contemplates additional acquisitions and continued integration, and we may fail to identify suitable targets, acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them. We intend to enhance the profitability of our business by applying our integration strategy to a larger asset base and, towards that end, we need to identify suitable targets that would fit into our operations, acquire them on acceptable terms and successfully integrate them. The acquisition and integration of new companies pose significant risks to our existing operations, including: ·additional demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; ·increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; ·significant, initial cash expenditures to integrate new acquisitions; and ·incurrence of debt to finance acquisitions and higher debt service costs related thereto. Moreover, despite our conducting the appropriate pre-acquisition inquiries and due diligence reviews, the successful integration of new businesses may also be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing culture or management styles, poor records or internal controls and inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected profit margins. Acquisitions also could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. We rely on computer software and hardware systems to manage our operations, the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon sophisticated computer software and hardware systems to support our network and manage and monitor programs on the network and currently rely in large part on commercial providers for both system capacity and network maintenance. In addition, we rely on this computer hardware for the storage, delivery and transmission of the data on our network. Any loss of such services or system failure which interrupts the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increases the service time could disrupt our normal operation. Any failure in this computer software or the related hardware systems could decrease our revenues and harm our relationships with suppliers and customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business is subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations and self-regulatory principles and frameworks internationally. These laws, regulations and self-regulatory principles and frameworks are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and self-regulatory principles and frameworks in Australia, the United States and other jurisdictions in which we currently or will operate that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, data security, advertising, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted or applied in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. The introduction of new products, services or features may subject us to additional laws and regulations as well as self-regulatory frameworks, principles and industry guidelines. In addition, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations of various applicable jurisdictions are often more restrictive than those in Australia and the United States. In particular, the European Union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. A number of proposals are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly and adversely affect our business. For example, a regulation relating to the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive is currently being considered by European legislative bodies that may affect companies who are not based in Europe but provides services to European citizens, and could include more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information of EU citizens and significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy, online and mobile tracking and geolocation, mobile applications, services provided to children and liability for copyright infringement by third parties. In particular, the U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission, and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the Internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. Additionally, recent amendments to U.S. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. We currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information. We may expand our collection of personal information, which may subject us to additional regulation and increase our exposure to security incidents. Further, it is difficult to predict how existing laws and regulations will be applied to our business and the new laws and regulations to which we may become subject, and it is possible that they may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with and adverse to our current practices. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products and services, result in negative publicity, significantly increase our operating costs, require significant time and attention of management and technical personnel and subject us to inquiries or investigations, claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. User trust regarding privacy is important to the growth of users and the increase in user engagement on our partners’ platforms, and privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using our products. From time to time, concerns have been expressed by governments, regulators and others about whether products, services or practices similar to ours compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about governmental or regulatory actions involving our practices or practices in our industry generally with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose partners, users and advertisers and materially and adversely affect our operating results. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with data protection laws and regulations or privacy policies may result in inquiries and other proceedings or actions being threatened or taken against us by governments, regulators or others, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand, each of which could cause us to lose partners, users and advertisers, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users’ or advertisers’ data could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of products and services we offer, increase the size of our user base and operate in more countries. Governments and regulators around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws or regulations in Australia, the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux, and in some cases, laws or regulations in one country are inconsistent with, or contrary to, those of another country. It is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our practices in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Complying with new laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change or even terminate our business practices, at least in the applicable jurisdiction, in a manner materially adverse to our business. 7 Table of Contents We are likely to need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it at acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We are likely to need additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If we need these resources to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: ·investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of our company and other companies which operate in our industries; ·conditions of the U.S. capital and debt markets and other capital and debt markets in which we may seek to raise funds; ·our future results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and actual or forecasted profitability. Future issuances of ordinary shares may cause a dilution in your shareholding or place restrictions on our operations. If we successfully raise additional capital, your shareholding may be diluted or we may have significant restrictions placed on our operations. Any capital raised through issuance of new equity or equity-linked securities may cause a dilution in the percentage ownership of our then existing shareholders and holders of our ADSs. Our organizational documents do not place any limit on the number of equity securities we may issue. Alternatively, capital raised by way of additional debt financing may result in restrictions placed on us through such debt financing arrangements which may: ·limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends; ·increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·limit our ability to pursue our business strategies; ·require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditure, working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes; and ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this in turn could have a material adverse effect on the price of the ordinary shares or our ADSs. We may become subject to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Companies operating in the Internet, technology and media industries typically own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of those patents and other intellectual property rights. Many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. We do not currently have any registered patents or trademarks and rely on a combination of license agreements, copyright, trade secrecy laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. In addition, various “non-practicing entities” that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to aggressively assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. Further, from time to time we may introduce new products and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. 8 Table of Contents In addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our products do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. Such advertisers, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and materially adversely impact our business. While we are not currently the subject of any threatened or actual patent and other intellectual property claims, as we face increasing competition and increase our profile, the number of such claims against us may grow. There may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. Any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. In addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. We may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. The terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party or both. In addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. If we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. As a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue use of the applicable technology. The development or procurement of alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. An unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our products contain, and we expect our future products will contain, open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use open source software in our products and will use open source software in the future. In addition, we regularly release internal software projects under open source licenses and we anticipate continuing to do so. In the future we may also contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not, as far as we are aware, been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. Additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. Additionally, because any software source code we contribute to open source projects is publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we are unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of key management personnel could negatively affect our business. Our future success is dependent in large part on our ability to retain highly qualified managerial and other key personnel. In particular we depend on our Chief Executive Officer, Ian Rodwell. The loss of Mr. Rodwell or any other key personnel we might hire could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company For as long as we are an “emerging growth company,” we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements that apply to other public companies. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, enacted on April 5, 2012. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These include: (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), (2) not being required to comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”), requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) not being required to comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise, and (4) not being required to provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies. We could be an emerging growth company until June 30, 2019, although if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of any completed second fiscal quarter, we issue $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities or our revenues exceed $1 billion at any time before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of the following June 30. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares or ADSs less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares or ADSs less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares or ADSs and the market price may be more volatile. Further, as a result of these scaled regulatory requirements, our disclosure may be more limited than that of other public companies and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of such companies. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and will be subject to the Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those applicable to a U.S. issuer. We report under the Exchange Act as a foreign private issuer. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we will be exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act, (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time, and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. We intend to furnish quarterly reports to the Commission on Form 6-K for so long as we are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(g) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, although the information we furnish may not be the same as the information that is required in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for U.S. domestic issuers. In addition, while U.S. domestic issuers that are not large accelerated filers or accelerated filers are required to file their annual reports on Form 10-K within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the Regulation Fair Disclosure, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. Although we intend to make interim reports available to our shareholders in a timely manner, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain NASDAQ Global Market requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain NASDAQ Global Market requirements. A foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Commission, each NASDAQ Global Market requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in Australia and listed on the ASX, we expect to follow ASX Listing Rules and Australian corporations law and practice with respect to executive sessions of the independent members of our board of directors. Unlike the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, the corporate governance practice and requirements in Australia do not require us to hold regular executive sessions where only independent directors shall be present. We also seek exemption from NASDAQ’s quorum requirements applicable to meetings of shareholders and from the rules obligating issuers to obtain shareholder approval prior to the issuance of securities in connection with certain acquisitions, private placements of securities the establishment or amendment of certain stock option, purchase or other compensation plans, as we intend to follow applicable Australian law and the ASX Listing Rules in these matters. Such Australian home country practices may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. 10 Table of Contents We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, between the price of our ordinary shares on the ASX and the price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market. Such arbitrage activities could cause our share price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value and could also in certain circumstances affect the volatility in the price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs. There is a risk that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (including our pro rata share of the gross income of our 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (including our pro rata share of the assets of our 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section titled “Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — General”) of our ADSs or ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability upon a sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares or the receipt of certain excess distributions from us and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition (and estimated values) of the assets and the nature of the income of us and our subsidiaries for 2014, we do not believe that we will be treated as a PFIC for the 2014 taxable year, ending on December 31, 2014. However, because we have not performed a definitive analysis as to our PFIC status for our 2013 or 2014 taxable year, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for either such taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. U.S. Holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For more information, see “Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a public company in the U.S., we will have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting starting with our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending June 30, 2015. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F following the date on which we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company if we become an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a material adverse effect on the market price of the ordinary shares and ADSs. Lack of experience as officers of U.S. publicly-traded companies of our management team may hinder our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It may be time-consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance staff or consultants in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal controls requirements, we may not be able to obtain the independent auditor certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires publicly-traded companies to obtain to the extent applicable to us. Risks Related to our Securities The market price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs could be subject to volatility. The market price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: ·variations in our actual and perceived operating results; ·announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; ·technological breakthroughs by us or our competitors; ·news regarding gains or losses of customers or partners by us or our competitors; ·news regarding gains or losses of key personnel by us or our competitors; ·announcements of competitive developments, acquisitions or strategic alliances in our industry by us or our competitors; ·changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; ·potential litigation; ·general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; and ·the operating and stock price performance of other companies, other industries and other events or factors beyond our control. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of the ordinary shares and our ADSs. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares and, correspondingly, our ADSs. Under Australian law, we may only pay dividends subject to our ability to service our debts as they become due and provided that our assets will exceed our liabilities after the dividend. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We can give no assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. Our historical dividend payments are not indicative of the amount or timing of the payment of dividends that may be payable in the future and should not be used as a reference or basis to determine the amount of such dividends. The declaration of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital requirements, general financial conditions, legal and contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Future sales of substantial amounts of the ordinary shares or ADSs by existing shareholders could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of the ordinary shares or ADSs, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place we deem appropriate. All 600,557,003 ordinary shares, which includes 12,106,520 which trade in the form of ADSs, may be sold in the public market in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act for those securities held by our “affiliates” as that term is defined under the U.S. federal securities laws. If any existing shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our shares could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Takeovers Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001 (the “Corporations Act”). Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s aggregate voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit our shareholders’ strategic opportunities to sell their ordinary shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders to obtain a premium from such transactions. See Item 10.B. and “Description of Shares and Governing Documents” incorporated by reference therein. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. As an Australian incorporated company we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act, set forth various rights and obligations that are particular to us as an Australian company. These requirements operate differently than from the equivalent legislation that is applicable to many U.S. incorporated companies and may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. You should carefully review the summary of these matters set forth under the Item 10.B. and ‘Description of Shares and Governing Documents’ incorporated by reference therein, as well as our Constitution, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report, prior to investing in our ordinary shares. 13 Table of Contents You will have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in Australia, and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in Australia, and conduct business in Australia through our subsidiaries established in Australia. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be impracticable or at least more expensive for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in Australia in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. For more information regarding the relevant laws of Australia, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and must act through the depositary to exercise your rights. Except as described in the deposit agreement related to our ADSs (the “Deposit Agreement”), holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs are entitled to instruct the depositary how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by our ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call, attend or speak at a shareholders’ meeting. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we may not, and under the Deposit Agreement for our ADSs, the depositary will not, offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to rely on an exemption from registration under the Securities Act to distribute such rights and securities. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of our ADSs. Our ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement, or for any other reason. Your ability to protect your rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Australian law. Australian companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. Anti-takeover provisions in our Constitution and our right to issue preference shares could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Some provisions of our Constitution may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or management that shareholders may consider favorable, including provisions that divide our board of directors into three classes and authorize our board of directors to issue an unlimited number of shares of capital stock and preference shares in one or more series and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preference shares by amending the Constitution. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our ADSs will not be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our ADSs and our ability to access the capital markets. Our ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our ADSs will develop on the NASDAQ Global Market or be sustained, or that current trading levels in ADSs will be sustained. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, by law, various requirements would be imposed on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our ADSs, which may further affect the liquidity of our ADSs. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market provide that a company, in order to qualify for continued listing, must maintain a minimum share price of $1.00 and satisfy standards relative to minimum shareholders’ equity, minimum market value of publicly held shares and various additional requirements. If we fail to comply with all listing standards applicable to issuers listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, our ADSs may be delisted. If our ADSs are delisted, it could reduce the price of our ADSs and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. In addition, the delisting of our ADSs could materially and adversely affect our access to the capital markets and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our ADSs could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also result in other negative consequences, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. 