ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The market for prepaid debit cards and alternative financial services is highly competitive and competition is increasing as more companies, many that are larger and have greater resources than we do, endeavor to address the needs of underbanked consumers. The financial services industry, including the prepaid card market, is subject to intense and increasing competition. We directly compete with a number of companies that market open-loop prepaid debit cards through retail and online distribution, including Green Dot Corporation, Account Now, Inc. and UniRush, LLC. Many transaction processors, such as First Data Corporation, Total System Services, Inc., Fidelity National Information Services and Galileo Processing, Inc., have the ability to manage the processing of prepaid programs and are increasingly soliciting large distributors of prepaid cards to transfer their programs to their technology platforms. Such a migration essentially eliminates our role as program manager for their card portfolios and we have lost some accounts as a result of this dynamic. In addition, we compete with banks that offer demand deposit accounts and other traditional issuers of debit cards. We also compete against large retailers such as Wal-Mart who are seeking to integrate more financial services into their product offerings and our competitor Green Dot currently has the exclusive right to sell GPR cards at Wal-Mart stores. We anticipate increased competition from alternative financial services providers who are often well-positioned to service the underbanked and who may wish to develop their own prepaid debit card programs. The increased desire of banks, retailers, processors and alternative financial services providers to develop and promote prepaid debit card programs could have an adverse effect on our business, including increased price competition and the loss of distributor relationships. Our ability to grow our business is dependent on our ability to compete effectively against other providers of GPR cards and alternative financial services. Many existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We also face strong price competition. To stay competitive, we may have to increase the incentives that we offer to our retail distributors and decrease the prices of our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating results. The loss of, or changes to, our relationships with MetaBank or our other Issuing Banks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. We rely on the arrangements we have with our Issuing Banks to provide us with critical products and services, including the FDIC-insured depository accounts tied to our GPR cards, access to the ATM networks, membership in the card associations and network organizations (collectively, the "Networks") and other banking services. As of December 31, 2011, the majority of our active cards were issued through MetaBank. If our relationship with MetaBank deteriorates, it could hinder our ability to grow our business and have an adverse impact on our operating results. If any material adverse event were to affect MetaBank, including as a result of the directives issued by the OCC against MetaBank, or one or more of our other Issuing Banks or if we were to lose MetaBank or one or more of our other Issuing Banks, we would be forced to find an alternative provider of these critical banking services. We may not be able to find a replacement bank on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Any change in our Issuing Banks could disrupt our business or result in arrangements with new banks that are less favorable to us than those we have with our existing Issuing Banks, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents In addition, because some of our Issuing Banks have appointed us and our distributors as their agents for purposes of providing services in connection with our prepaid debit cards in various states, the termination of our relationship with one or more of these Issuing Banks would force us and our distributors to cease offering prepaid debit cards and related services to the extent that we rely on our status as their agent in order to do so. SunTrust, an issuer and referral partner for some of our payroll cards, has indicated that it believes we failed to perform an agreed-upon process to verify the identities of some of the employees holding payroll cards issued by it. We re-performed certain identity verification procedures with respect to the identified cardholders. SunTrust maintains, however, that it has the continuing right to terminate its contract with us, although it has not indicated that it intends to do so at this time. Our current contract with SunTrust automatically renewed for one year at the end of 2011. The loss of our business relationship with SunTrust would mean that, although we would continue to administer our current portfolio of payroll cards issued by SunTrust, SunTrust would no longer seek to refer its commercial customers to us for payroll card services. The loss of this distribution channel could reduce our revenue growth in future periods if we are unable to replace SunTrust with other referral partners. Unauthorized disclosure of cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation. We collect and store personally identifiable information about our cardholders, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers and maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including account numbers, in order to process transactions and prevent fraud. As a result, we are required to comply with the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, various other federal and state privacy statutes and regulations, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, each of which is subject to change at any time. Compliance with these requirements is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or our distributors' failure, to comply may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our Issuing Banks and termination of our agreements with one or more of our Issuing Banks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or operations. In addition, a significant breach could result in our being prohibited from processing transactions for any of the relevant Network organizations, including Visa, MasterCard or PULSE, which would also have a significant material adverse impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. Any data breach or failure to comply with any applicable privacy requirements could result in damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our prepaid cards, cause our Issuing Banks or distributors to cease doing business with us or lead to greater regulation, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position or potential for growth. Furthermore, if our computer systems are breached by unauthorized users, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for any failure to comply with laws governing required notifications of such a breach. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the Networks. We and our distributors may be subject to claims of patent infringement. The technologies used in the payments industry are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement and misappropriation claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations or the equipment, software or services we use or provide. Various third parties have asserted or suggested the possibility 14 Table of Contents of asserting patent infringement claims against us from time to time in the past and we are currently the defendant in three ongoing disputes related to patents held by others. In 2003, Alexsam, Inc. asserted a claim of patent infringement against us. Alexsam dismissed the claim without prejudice pursuant to the parties' agreement to negotiate a patent license agreement. We subsequently entered into a license agreement with Alexsam that gave us the option to begin using Alexsam's patents (if we so chose) in exchange for royalties, but provided that we would not owe Alexsam royalties for the use of our existing systems. Alexsam has subsequently sued us for violating this license agreement and has asserted that we fraudulently induced them to enter into it. In October 2011, Integrated Technological Systems, Inc. ("ITS") filed a patent infringement case against NetSpend. ITS asserts in its complaint that NetSpend has been infringing a patent issued to ITS in March of 2011 as a result of providing services that utilize the system described in the patent to transfer funds from NetSpend Reload Packs to NetSpend GPR cards and to transfer funds between NetSpend GPR cards. ITS is seeking a declaration that NetSpend has infringed its patent, an injunction prohibiting NetSpend from continuing the alleged infringement of its patent; damages for NetSpend's prior alleged infringing activity; and attorneys' fees and costs. In February 2012, TQP Development, LLC ("TQP") filed a patent infringement case against NetSpend. TQP asserts in its complaint that NetSpend has been infringing a patent issued in May of 1995 to Telequip Corporation based on the operation of encrypted portions of NetSpend's website. TQP is seeking a judgment that NetSpend has infringed its patent, an injunction prohibiting NetSpend from continuing to infringe its patent, damages for NetSpend's alleged prior infringing activity and attorneys' fees and costs. Whether or not an infringement or misappropriation claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management's attention and involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay past and future royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights then in use, enter into a license agreement and pay license fees or stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights then in use. We may be unable to obtain the necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. In addition, our distributors may be subject to infringement or misappropriation claims that, if successful, could preclude them from distributing our products and services or cause them to increase the fees they charge us. In addition, if claims made against our distributors arise out of their distribution of our products and services, we are required to indemnify them against any losses. We may not be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement or misappropriation claim involving the licensors and suppliers who provide us with the software and technology that we use in our business. In addition, any such suppliers may refuse to, or may be unable to, pay any damages or honor their defense and indemnification obligations to us, which may result in us having to bear such losses. The majority of our revenues result from GPR cards marketed pursuant to agreements we have entered into with retail distributors. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our retail distributors on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our business model substantially depends on establishing agreements with our retail distributors, which primarily consist of alternative financial services providers, as well as grocery and convenience stores and other traditional retailers. While we continually seek to diversify the sources of our revenues and card distribution, the majority of our revenue streams have historically depended on cards distributed through these channels. In 2011, GPR cards distributed through our largest retail distributor, ACE, accounted for approximately 37.9% of our revenues. Our current contract with ACE expires in March 2016. 15 Table of Contents The success of our business depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain retailers with a large number of locations that are convenient for our cardholders to purchase and reload our GPR cards. Some of our retail distributors may endeavor to internally develop their own prepaid debit card programs or enter into exclusive relationships with our competitors to distribute their products. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in revenues from, one or more of our top retail distributors, particularly ACE, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Most of our retail distribution agreements have terms ranging from three to five years and are typically renewable automatically for subsequent terms of at least one year unless we or the distributor affirmatively elect to discontinue the agreement within the required notice period. If we want to continue a contractual relationship with a retail distributor after the expiration of the agreement, we are typically required to renegotiate the terms of the agreement upon its expiration and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of the agreement before it expires. Our negotiations to renew some distribution agreements have resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the prior agreements, such as improved royalty rates and terms that permit the distributors to market prepaid debit cards that compete with our GPR cards. Further, we may not succeed in renewing these agreements when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of new revenue from these distributors. If we are required to pay higher revenue-sharing amounts or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our retail distributors, or if we are not able to renew our relationships with our retail distributors upon the expiration of our agreements, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. We depend on our distributors' sale and promotion of our products and services, but their interests and operational decisions might not always align with our interests. A significant portion of our operating revenues are derived from our products and services sold at the stores of our retail distributors. Because we often compete with many other providers of consumer and financial products for placement and promotion of products in these stores, our success depends on the willingness of our retail distributors to promote our products and services successfully. In general, these third parties are able to exercise significant discretion over the placement and promotion of our products in their stores and they can chose to give greater prominence to the products and services of other prepaid debit card providers. In many instances, our retail distributors have greater incentives to promote other products or services to consumers. If our retailers do not actively and effectively promote the sale of our cards, our growth will be limited and our operating results will suffer. We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business. As an agent of, and third-party service provider to, our Issuing Banks, we are subject to indirect regulation and direct audit and examination by the OCC, the FRB, the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance, the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. We will become subject to additional regulators as we add new issuing banks. We are also subject to direct regulation by those states in which we are licensed as a money transmitter. Because each of our retail distributors offers prepaid cards and reload services either as an agent of our Issuing Banks or, where applicable, of NetSpend or another licensed money transmitter, we do not believe that the distributors are themselves required to become licensed as money transmitters in order to engage in such activity. However, there is a risk that a federal or state regulator will take a contrary position and initiate enforcement or other proceedings against a distributor, us or our Issuing Banks. Such a development could have an adverse impact on our business, even if the relevant party were to ultimately prevail in such proceedings. It is also possible that the relevant party could be 16 Table of Contents unsuccessful in making a persuasive argument that it should not be subject to such licensing requirements, and therefore could be deemed to be in violation of one or more of the state money transmitter statutes. Such failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of the relevant party's ability to offer some or all of our GPR cards and related services in the relevant jurisdiction, civil liability and criminal liability, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. State and federal legislatures and regulatory authorities have become increasingly focused upon the regulation of the financial services industry and continue to adopt new legislation which could result in significant changes in the regulatory landscape for financial institutions (such as our Issuing Banks) and other financial services companies (including our business). For example, the establishment of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will likely expose us to increased regulatory oversight and possibly more burdensome regulation and have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. Additionally, changes to the disclosures which must be provided with our products and services or limitations placed on the overdraft and other fees associated with them could negatively impact our financial position by increasing our costs and reducing our revenue. Furthermore, states may adopt statutes which could limit the application of certain fees or otherwise increase the costs incurred, or negatively impact the revenue received, by our Issuing Banks in connection with the provision of our prepaid debit cards, which would have an indirect adverse impact on our revenue. Finally, if the federal or one or more state governments impose additional legislative or regulatory requirements on us, our Issuing Banks or our distributors, or prohibit or limit our activities as currently conducted, we may be required to modify or terminate some or all of our products and services offered in the relevant jurisdiction or certain of our Issuing Banks may terminate their relationship with us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us, our Issuing Banks or our distributors to comply with all applicable statutes and regulations could result in fines, penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, civil liability, criminal liability, and/or limitations on our ability to operate our business, each of which could significantly harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2010, the FRB issued a final rule implementing Title IV of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, which imposes requirements relating to disclosures, fees and expiration dates that are generally applicable to gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards. We believe that our GPR cards, and the maintenance fees charged on our GPR cards, are exempt from the requirements of this rule, as they fall within an express exclusion for cards which are reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate. However, this exclusion is not available if the issuer, the retailer selling the card to a consumer or the program manager promotes, even if occasionally, the use of the card as a gift card or gift certificate. As a result, we provide retailers with instructions and policies regarding the display and promotion of our GPR cards. It is possible, however, that despite our instructions and policies to the contrary, a retailer engaged in offering our GPR cards to consumers could take an action with respect to one or more of the cards that would cause them to be viewed as being marketed or labeled as a gift card. In such event, it is possible that our GPR cards would lose their eligibility for such exclusion to the CARD Act and the rule's requirements and therefore our program could be deemed to be in violation of the CARD Act and the rule. Such a violation could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our GPR cards, civil liability, criminal liability and the inability of our Issuing Banks to apply certain fees to our GPR cards, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. 17 Table of Contents The providers of alternative financial services that distribute our products are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulations and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect their ability to offer our GPR cards through their locations, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. Our retail distributors include a large number of companies in industries that are highly regulated, such as payday lenders and other alternative financial services providers. It is possible that changes in the legal regime governing such businesses could limit their ability to distribute our products or adversely impact their business and thereby have an indirect adverse impact on our business. For example, a large number of states have either prohibited, or imposed substantial restrictions upon, the offering of "payday loans" and this activity continues to draw substantial scrutiny from federal and state legislatures, regulatory authorities and various consumer groups. Furthermore, the federal financial reform legislation enacted in July 2010 grants supervisory authority over entities engaged in this activity to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is directed to promulgate regulations which may significantly impact the operations and/or viability of various entities, including those engaged in the business of offering payday loans. As a number of our retail distributors, including our largest distributor, ACE, are engaged in offering payday loans, further legislative and regulatory restrictions that negatively impact their ability to continue their operations could have a corresponding negative impact on our ability to offer our GPR cards through their locations, potentially resulting in a significant decline in our revenue. We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation relating to the distribution of our GPR cards through corporate employers and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business. We understand that state banking departments, which are charged with regulating the business of money transmission, have traditionally taken the position that the offering of payroll cards does not constitute money transmission and so we are not required to obtain a state money transmission license in order to engage in this activity. However, there is a risk that a federal or state regulator will take a contrary position and initiate enforcement or other proceedings against us or our Issuing Banks, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, even if we were to ultimately prevail in such proceedings. It is also possible that we could be unsuccessful in making a persuasive argument that we should not be subject to such licensing requirements and could be deemed to be in violation of one or more of the state money transmitter statutes. Such a violation could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our GPR cards through corporate employers in the relevant jurisdiction, civil liability and criminal liability, any of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. The use of payroll cards as a means for an employer to remit wages or other compensation to its employees or independent contractors is also governed by state labor laws related to wage payments. Most states permit the use of payroll cards as a method of paying wages to employees, either through statutory provisions allowing such use, or, in the absence of specific statutory guidance, the adoption by state labor departments of formal or informal policies allowing for the use of such cards. Nearly every state allowing payroll cards places certain requirements and/or restrictions on their use as a wage payment method, the most common of which involve obtaining the prior written consent of the employee, limitations on payroll card fees and disclosure requirements. There is a risk that one or more states or state labor departments that currently permit the use of payroll cards as a wage payment method will take a contrary position, either through revised legislation, regulation or policies, as applicable, or will impose additional requirements on the provision and use of such cards, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business. 18 Table of Contents The final rule to be adopted by the Department of Treasury could prevent us from loading federal benefits directly on to our cards. In January 2011 the Department of the Treasury issued an interim final rule that would prohibit the electronic deposit of federal benefits, wages and tax refunds to prepaid debit cards that do not meet certain criteria, including one that requires that the card not have an attached line of credit or loan feature that triggers automatic repayment from the card. The cardholder must also be afforded all of the consumer protections that apply to a payroll card. The public comment period for the rule expired in April 2011. Although we believe that our GPR cards comply with the interim final rule in all respects, the Department of the Treasury could change the rule in light of the comments it receives during the public comment period in a manner that would limit or prohibit the electronic deposit of federal benefits, wages and tax refunds onto our GPR cards, which would result in a material adverse impact on our revenues. Our card programs are subject to strict regulation under federal law regarding anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing. Failure to comply with such laws, or abuse of our card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and other federal laws impose substantial regulations on financial institutions that are designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorist organizations. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of our industry with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing matters could result in more aggressive enforcement of these laws or the enactment of more onerous regulation, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, abuse of our prepaid card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, notwithstanding our efforts to prevent such abuse through our regulatory compliance and risk management programs, could cause reputational or other harm that would have a material adverse impact on our business. In July 2011, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a final rule regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act's anti-money laundering provisions to "prepaid access programs." This rulemaking clarifies the anti-money laundering obligations for entities, such as us and our distributors, engaged in the provision and sale of prepaid access devices like our GPR cards. We have registered with FinCEN as a "money services business" in our capacity as the manager of our prepaid programs. The final rule also imposes certain anti-money laundering and record keeping requirements on persons who are considered "sellers" of prepaid access. We believe we can configure our GPR programs so that the members of our load and reload networks will be eligible for an exemption from this definition without materially altering our programs. The final rule requires, however, that persons who load and reload prepaid cards (including closed-loop cards) must also implement policies and procedures reasonably adapted to prevent the sale of prepaid access to funds that exceed $10,000 (the "Daily Limit") to any person during any given day in order to avoid being considered a "seller" of prepaid access. Persons considered "sellers" of prepaid access are required to maintain an effective anti-money laundering program; report suspicious activity; comply with certain recordkeeping requirements relating to customer identifying information and transaction data; and respond to law enforcement requests. These requirements become effective in March 2012. It is possible that retailers will determine that complying with the requirements applicable to "sellers" of prepaid access is unduly onerous. As a result, these retailers will either seek to qualify for the exemption from this definition or cease distributing prepaid products. It is also possible that some retailers will conclude that instituting the policies and procedures needed to provide reasonable assurance that their aggregated prepaid sales to any person do not exceed the Daily Limit on any day is also unduly burdensome. Either of these conclusions could cause a retailer to elect to cease distributing prepaid products after the final FinCEN rules become effective. Developments such as these could 19 Table of Contents make it materially more difficult for us to attract new distributors and retain our existing distributors. This would make it harder for us to sell cards to consumers and could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profits. Further, it is possible that FinCEN, or another federal or state regulator, could adopt additional laws or rules that would lead to a similar result. Our business is dependent on our continued participation in the Networks, and the termination of our participation in the Networks or changes in the Network rules could materially adversely affect our business. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the compensation paid by our Issuing Banks for the program management and processing services that we provide in support of their prepaid debit cards. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for membership in the Networks. The rules and regulations of the Networks require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process prepaid debit card transactions and serve as a program manager for our Issuing Banks' prepaid debit card programs. We currently participate in the Networks through sponsorship by our Issuing Banks. If we or one of our Issuing Banks fails to comply with the rules and regulations of the Networks or we fail to comply with the applicable program requirements of our Issuing Banks, the Networks could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in their organizations or levy fines against us. The termination of our participation in the Networks, or any changes in their rules and regulations or our Issuing Banks' program requirements that would impair our participation in the Networks, could require us to alter or suspend processing services that we provide to the Issuing Banks with respect to our prepaid debit cards, which would adversely affect our business. Further, if any of our Issuing Banks loses its sponsorship in the Networks, and we are unable to secure another bank to sponsor us with such Network, we would not be able to process transactions with respect to our prepaid debit cards and our business would be materially and adversely affected. The information technology systems and networks maintained by us and the third parties on whom we rely could fail due to factors, including those beyond our control, which could negatively impact our existing customer relationships and our business reputation. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our end-to-end operational and technology platform. This platform is comprised of a complex system of computers, software, data centers and networks. Our ability to efficiently process transactions also depends on the systems of a wide variety of third parties, including our Issuing Banks, distributors, the Networks and processors over which we have limited or no control. Our technology platform, and the third party systems on which we rely, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate for all losses or failures that may occur. Protracted or frequent system failures could negatively impact our existing customer relationships and our business reputation. We have entered into outsourcing and other agreements related to certain business operations, and any difficulties experienced in these arrangements could result in additional expense, loss of cardholders and revenue or an interruption of our services. We have entered into outsourcing agreements with third parties to provide certain customer service and related support functions to our cardholders, including the outsourcing of customer service through facilities located in the Philippines and Guatemala. As a result, we must rely on third parties over which we have limited control to perform certain of our operations and, in certain circumstances, interface with our cardholders. If these third parties are unable to perform to our requirements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies to provide these services, which could result in delays, interruptions, additional expenses and loss of cardholders. 20 Table of Contents Due to their location in developing nations, these providers may be more susceptible to certain events, including political upheavals, war, terrorist attacks, strikes, natural disasters and pandemics. If our suppliers experience any of these events, our systems and networks may not function properly, we may lose customers and revenues and we may have difficulty attracting new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The business interruption insurance we carry may not cover any or all of the losses we may experience as a result of such events. Any significant losses that are not covered by insurance could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the outcome of the inquiry by the Florida Office of the Attorney General. In June 2011, we, along with a number of other participants in the prepaid debit card industry, received a subpoena from the Florida Attorney General's office requesting information regarding our marketing materials, the fees we charge to cardholders and the disclosures we provide to them. We completed our initial documentary response to this request in June 2011. Although we believe our programs have complied at all times with applicable law, the attorney general's office could find our arguments unpersuasive and seek to impose fines, require us to pay restitution to our cardholders or suspend or terminate our ability to offer our products and services in Florida. Any such result would adversely affect our business and could result in material litigation as well as actions by other regulators. We are subject to risks and write-offs resulting from fraudulent activities and losses from overdrawn cardholder accounts that could adversely impact our financial performance and results of operations. Our prepaid cards expose us to threats involving the misuse of such cards, collusion, fraud, identity theft and systemic attacks on our systems. Although a large portion of fraudulent activity is addressed through the chargeback systems and procedures maintained by the Networks, we are often responsible for other losses due to merchant and cardholder fraud. No system or procedures established to detect and reduce the impact of fraud are entirely effective and we recorded losses of $14.4 million due to fraud in 2011. Although we actively devote efforts to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, we could nevertheless experience an increase in fraud losses over our historical experience. Our cardholders can in some circumstances incur charges in excess of the funds available in their accounts and are liable for the resulting overdrawn account balance. Although we generally decline authorization attempts for amounts that exceed the available balance in a cardholder's account, the application of the Networks' rules and regulations, the timing of the settlement of transactions and the assessment of subscription, maintenance or other fees can, among other things, result in overdrawn card accounts. We also provide, as a courtesy and at our discretion, certain cardholders with a "cushion" which allows them to overdraw their card accounts by up to $10. In addition, eligible cardholders may enroll in our Issuing Banks' overdraft protection programs and fund transactions that exceed the available balance in their accounts. We generally provide the funds used as part of this overdraft program (MetaBank will advance the first $1.0 million on behalf of its cardholders) and are responsible to our Issuing Banks for any losses associated with any overdrawn account balances. As of December 31, 2011, our cardholders' overdrawn account balances totaled $9.0 million. Although we maintain reserves for fraud and other losses, our exposure to these types of risks may exceed our reserve levels for a variety of reasons, including our failure to predict the actual recovery rate, failure to effectively manage risk and failure to prevent fraud. Accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we incur losses resulting from overdrawn cardholder accounts and fraudulent activity that exceed our designated reserves or if we determine that it is necessary to increase our reserves substantially in order to address any increased recovery risk. 21 Table of Contents We may not increase cardholder direct deposit participation and therefore may not achieve all of our strategic growth objectives. Product features such as direct deposit loading onto reloadable prepaid debit cards have increased the attractiveness of such cards and increased their utility to underbanked consumers. Because direct deposit active cardholders on average initiate more debit transactions and generate more revenues for us than active cardholders without direct deposit, increasing cardholder adoption of direct deposit is an important part of our strategy. We are devoting significant resources to the further development of our direct deposit programs and our growth profile depends on a resulting increase in direct deposit participation by our cardholders. Some of our existing contracts with our retail distributors prohibit us from directly promoting direct deposit to their customers. It is possible that other distributors will in the future insist on similar restrictions, which could limit our ability to grow direct deposit participation. If we are unable to increase direct deposit participation as projected, we will be unable to meet our growth projections, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have engaged, and may engage in the future, in mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may in the future further expand our distribution channels, technology platform or other aspects of our business through the acquisition of other businesses, assets or technologies. Any such transactions can entail risk, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources and may create operating and financial challenges, including: •difficulty integrating the acquired technologies, services, products, operations and personnel of the acquired business; •disruption to our existing business; •increased regulatory and compliance requirements; •negative impact on our cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital; •inability to achieve projected synergies; •increasing costs and complexity associated with the maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures; and •loss of key personnel. The anticipated benefit to us of any strategic transactions, acquisitions or mergers may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, a reduction in our cash reserves, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends in part on developing and protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we license technology from third parties. We have one registered patent and have applied for additional patents related to some of the unique features of our products. Our patent applications may not become issued patents. If they do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions. 22 Table of Contents Existing laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights or registrations granted to us may provide an inadequate competitive advantage to us or be too narrow to protect our products and services. The protections outlined above may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology and may not prevent our competitors from copying, infringing or misappropriating our products and services. It is possible that others will independently develop, design around or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. As of December 31, 2011, we had 84,733,848 shares of common stock outstanding (assuming the conversion into common stock of 199,995 shares of non-voting Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A Stock") by JLL Fund IV and 500,005 shares of Series A Stock held by JLL Fund V). 55,497,289 of these shares were owned by Oak Investment Partners X, LP (33,126,267 shares), Oak X Affiliates Fund, LP (531,797 shares), JLL Fund IV (6,239,627 shares, assuming the conversion of the shares of Series A Stock held by such fund) and JLL Fund V (15,599,598 shares, assuming the conversion of the shares of Series A Stock held by such fund). The shares held by these affiliates are eligible for sale, subject to certain restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In addition, these stockholders have the ability to require us to file a registration statement with respect to their shares under the Securities Act. If we register their shares, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or result in a premium price being paid for our outstanding shares of common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •the ability of our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms determined by our board of directors and to issue additional shares of our common stock; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% (or 80% in the case of the provision related to stockholder action by written consent) of our voting shares of capital stock is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. Absent approval of 23 Table of Contents our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our voting shares of capital stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for existing stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. We believe that the trading price for our common stock is affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may elect to cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 