Risk Factors regarding additional discussion of environmental matters. Other Policies The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote. Investment Policies Our primary business is to own and operate best-in-class malls that provide an outstanding environment and experience for our communities, retailers, employees, consumers and shareholders. The majority of our properties are located in the United States; however, we may also own interests in regional malls and property management activities outside the United States such as in Brazil. The Company elected to be treated as a REIT commencing with the taxable year beginning July 1, 2010, its date of incorporation. REIT limitations restrict us from making an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing. Subject to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be in the form of a general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies. Financing Policies We do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. We generally seek to finance individual properties on a secured basis. However, mortgage financing instruments usually limit additional indebtedness on those properties. Typically, we invest in or form separate legal entities to assist us in obtaining permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage interest on the property in favor of an institutional third party or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create separate legal entities to own the properties. These legal entities are structured so that they would not necessarily be consolidated in the event we became subject to a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include 4 Table of Contents the outstanding securitized debt of legal entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness. We are party to a revolving credit facility and publically traded bonds that require us to satisfy certain affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests, which may include ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage and net worth. If our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise that capital through additional public equity or preferred equity offerings, public debt offerings, debt financing, retention of cash flows, by creating joint ventures with existing ownership interests in properties or a combination of these methods. Our ability to retain cash flows is limited by the requirement for REITs to pay tax on or distribute 100% of their capital gains income and distribute at least 90% of their taxable income. Our desire is to avoid entity level U.S. Federal income tax by distributing 100% of our capital gains and ordinary taxable income. If our Board of Directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. The Plan Sponsors (as defined in Note 2) have preemptive rights to purchase our common stock as necessary to allow them to maintain their respective proportional ownership interest in GGP on a fully diluted basis. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us. We implemented our dividend reinvestment plan in which primarily all stockholders are entitled to participate. However, we may determine to pay dividends in a combination of cash and shares of common stock. Conflict of Interest Policies We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted governance principles governing our affairs and the Board of Directors, as well as written charters for each of the standing committees of the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards for NYSE companies. Any transaction between us and any director, officer or 5% stockholder must be approved pursuant to our Related Party Transaction Policy, including such transactions with Brookfield Investor, our largest stockholder. Refer to Note 10 for further discussion. Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to qualify as a REIT. We have authority to offer shares of our common stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. 5 Table of Contents Bankruptcy and Reorganization In April 2009, the Predecessor and certain of its domestic subsidiaries (the "Debtors") filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code in the bankruptcy court of the Southern District of New York (the "Bankruptcy Court"). On October 21, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan. Pursuant to the Plan, prepetition creditor claims were satisfied in full and equity holders received newly issued common stock in GGP and in Howard Hughes Corporation ("HHC"). After that distribution, HHC became a publicly-held company, majority-owned by the Predecessor's previous stockholders. GGP has no remaining interest in HHC as of the Effective Date. The Plan was based on the agreements (collectively, as amended and restated, the "Investment Agreements") with REP Investments LLC, an affiliate of Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (the "Brookfield Investor") an affiliate of Fairholme Funds Inc. ("Fairholme"), and an affiliate of Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. ("Pershing Square") and collectively ("the Plan Sponsors"). The Plan Sponsors also entered into an agreement with affiliates of the Blackstone Group ("Blackstone"). Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Agreement, the Plan Sponsors and Blackstone were issued 120 million warrants (the "Warrants") to purchase common stock of GGP. Refer to Note 10 for further discussion of the Warrants. Employees As of January 25, 2013, we had approximately 1,670 employees. Insurance We have comprehensive liability, property and rental loss insurance with respect to our portfolio of properties. Our management believes that such insurance provides adequate coverage. Qualification as a REIT and Taxability of Distributions The Predecessor qualified as a real estate investment trust pursuant to the requirements contained in Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). For 2010, 2011 and 2012, the Company met their distribution requirements to its common stockholders as provided for in Section 857 of the Code wherein a dividend declared in October, November or December but paid in January of the following year will be considered a prior year dividend for all purposes of the Code (Note 9). The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with the taxable year beginning July 2010, its date of incorporation and the Company intends to maintain REIT status, and therefore our operations will not be subject to Federal tax on real estate investment trust taxable income. A schedule detailing the taxability of dividends for 2012, 2011 and 2010 has been presented in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Securities and Exchange Commission Investigation By letter dated January 9, 2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified the Company that it had completed its investigation into possible violations of proscriptions on insider trading under the Federal securities laws by certain former officers and directors and that the SEC does not intend to recommend any enforcement action. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.ggp.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Interactive Data Files, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available and may be accessed free of charge through the Investment section of our Internet website under the Shareholder Info subsection, as soon as reasonably practicable after those 6 Table of Contents documents are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Internet website and included or linked information on the website are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report. Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, which can be accessed at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risks Regional and local economic conditions may adversely affect our business Our real property investments are influenced by the regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by increased unemployment, increased federal income and payroll taxes, increased state and local taxes, industry slowdowns, lack of availability of consumer credit, increased levels of consumer debt, poor housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, plant closings, and other factors. Similarly, local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the supply and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants may affect the ability of our properties to generate significant revenue. Economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and available cash Unemployment, increased federal income and payroll taxes, increased state and local taxes, weak income growth, tight credit and the need to pay down existing obligations may negatively impact consumer spending. Given these economic conditions, we believe there is a risk that the sales at stores operating in our malls may be adversely affected. This may hinder our ability to implement our strategies and may have an unfavorable effect on our operations and our ability to attract new tenants. We may be unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties on favorable terms or at all Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue to strategically lease space in our properties, including re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix or leasing properties on more economically favorable terms. Because approximately eight to nine percent of our total leases expire annually, we are continually focused on our ability to lease properties and collect rents from tenants. Similarly, we are pursuing a strategy of replacing expiring short-term leases with long-term leases. If the sales at certain stores operating in our regional malls do not improve sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants' sales do not improve, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and available cash would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations. The bankruptcy or store closures of national tenants, which are tenants with chains of stores in many of our properties, may adversely affect our revenues Our leases generally contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant. However, companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores. We may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a national tenant may adversely affect our revenues. 7 Table of Contents Certain co-tenancy provisions in our lease agreements may result in reduced rent payments, which may adversely affect our operations and occupancy Certain of our lease agreements include a co-tenancy provision which allows the tenant to pay a reduced rent amount and, in certain instances, terminate the lease, if we fail to maintain certain occupancy levels. Therefore, if occupancy or tenancy falls below certain thresholds, rents we are entitled to receive from our retail tenants could be reduced and may limit our ability to attract new tenants. It may be difficult to sell real estate quickly, and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may limit our ability to strategically change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available to us. Our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties, and our inability to maintain a positive perception may adversely affect our revenues We are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. If retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the internet to be more convenient or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected. We redevelop and expand properties, and this activity is subject to risks due to various economic factors that are beyond our control Capital investment to expand or redevelop our properties will be an ongoing part of our strategy going forward. In connection with such projects, we will be subject to various risks, including the following: •we may not have sufficient capital to proceed with planned redevelopment or expansion activities; •we may abandon redevelopment or expansion activities already under way, which may result in additional cost recognition; •construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; •we may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required governmental permits and authorizations; •occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable; and •we may not be able to obtain anchor store, mortgage lender and property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or redevelopment activities. If redevelopment, expansion or reinvestment projects are unsuccessful, our investments in those projects may not be fully recoverable from future operations or sales. 8 Table of Contents We are in a competitive business There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other regional malls, outlet malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, and through internet sales and telemarketing. Competition of these types could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate a large portfolio of high quality malls, maintain good relationships with our tenants and consumers, and remain well-capitalized, and our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes and earthquakes. Furthermore, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future increases in sea levels. For example, certain of our properties are located in California or in other areas with higher risk of earthquakes. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Future terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws Under various Federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage (investigation and/or clean-up costs) incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell, lease or borrow with respect to the real estate. Other Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of 9 Table of Contents underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of certain properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. However, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. Some potential losses are not insured We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss and environmental insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, and certain environmental conditions not discovered within the applicable policy period, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Should inflation increase in the future, this may have an impact on our consumers' disposable income. This may place temporary pressure on retailer sales and margins as their costs rise and we may be unable to pass the costs along to the consumer, which in turn may affect our ability to collect rents or renew spaces at higher overall rents. In addition, inflation may also impact our overall costs of operation. Many but not all of our leases have fixed amounts for recoveries and if our costs rise we may not be able to pass these costs on to our tenants. However, over the long term, substantially all of our tenant leases contain provisions designed to partially mitigate the negative impact of inflation as discussed in Item 7 below, which discussion is incorporated by reference here. Inflation also poses a risk to us due to the possibility of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt. In certain cases, we have previously limited our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to a portion of our variable-rate debt by the use of interest rate cap and swap agreements. Such agreements, subject to current market conditions, allow us to replace variable-rate debt with fixed-rate debt in order to achieve our desired ratio of variable-rate to fixed rate date. However, in an increasing interest rate environment the fixed rates we can obtain with such replacement fixed-rate cap and swap agreements or the fixed-rate on new debt will also continue to increase. Organizational Risks We are a holding company with no operations of our own and will depend on our subsidiaries for cash Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. Our ability to make dividends or distributions in connection with being a REIT is highly dependent on the earnings of and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or distributions, and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations is further limited by our subsidiaries' ability to make such dividends, distributions or intercompany loans. Our subsidiaries' ability to pay any dividends or distributions to us are limited by their obligations to satisfy their own obligations to their creditors and preferred stockholders before making any dividends or distributions to us. In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents We share control of some of our properties with other investors and may have conflicts of interest with those investors For the Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make decisions with the other investors who have interests in the relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties, to make distributions, as well as to bankruptcy decisions related to the Unconsolidated Properties and related joint ventures. Also, the assets of Unconsolidated Properties may be used as collateral to secure loans of our joint venture partners, and the indemnity we may be entitled to from our joint venture partners could be worth less than the value of those assets. We might not have the same interests as the other investors in relation to these transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide financial or other inducements to the other investors to obtain a favorable resolution. In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties. As such, we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling interests in a property or properties at a time that is not desirable. Bankruptcy of our joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the jointly owned retail properties The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our jointly owned shopping malls could materially and adversely affect the relevant property or properties. Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we would be precluded from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without prior court approval which would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than would otherwise be required. We are impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our partners We own certain properties through partnerships which have arrangements in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding or selling these properties. Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such, they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated business taxable income generated from these jointly owned properties. As the manager of these joint ventures, we have obligations to avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions related to the financing of and revenue generation from these properties. We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT We have elected to be treated as a REIT in connection with the filing of our tax return for 2010, retroactive to July 1, 2010. It is possible that we may not meet the conditions for continued qualification as a REIT. In addition, once an entity is qualified as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") generally requires that such entity distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to shareholders and pay tax on or distribute 100% of its capital gains. To avoid current entity level U.S. Federal income taxes, we expect to distribute 100% of our capital gains and ordinary income to shareholders annually. For 2010 we made 90% of this distribution in common stock and 10% in cash. For 2011, we made this distribution in the form of quarterly $.10 per share cash payments and the 11 Table of Contents special dividend of the common stock of RPI. There can be no assurances as to the allocation between cash and common stock of our future dividends. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and Federal income tax. If any of our REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure could result in our loss of REIT status. If we lose our REIT status, corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. GGP believes that it is a domestically controlled qualified investment entity as defined by the Code. However, because its shares are publicly traded, no assurance can be given that the Company is or will continue to be a domestically controlled qualified investment entity. An ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations. The ownership limit. Generally, for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code for a taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer "individuals" at any time during the last half of such taxable year. Our charter provides that no one individual may own more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of capital stock unless our board of directors provides a waiver from the ownership restrictions, which the Investment Agreements contemplate subject to the applicable Plan Sponsor making certain representations and covenants. Brookfield Investor currently owns approximately 38% of the outstanding shares of capital stock, excluding the effect of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants (refer to Item 7 and Note 10). The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described above to include some types of entities. However, our certificate of incorporation also permits us to exempt a person from the ownership limit described therein upon the satisfaction of certain conditions which are described in our certificate of incorporation. Selected provisions of our charter documents. Our charter authorizes the board of directors: •to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock; •to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; and •to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue. Selected provisions of our bylaws. Our amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations: •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; •restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 15% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and •rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. 12 Table of Contents Selected provisions of Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203 prevents an "interested stockholder" (as defined below), from engaging in a "business combination" (as defined in the statute) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs: •before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination; •upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; and •following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. The statute defines "interested stockholder" as any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination. Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions. There is a risk of investor influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other shareholders Brookfield Investor and Pershing Square still own, in the aggregate, a significant portion of the shares of our common stock (excluding shares issuable upon the exercise of Warrants) as of December 31, 2012. The effect of the exercise of the Warrants by Brookfield Investor or the election to receive future dividends in the form of common stock, would further increase their ownership. As a result of transactions occurring on December 31, 2012 and January 28, 2013 (refer to Item 7 and Note 10 for discussion), the Brookfield Investor is now the sole third party owner of the Warrants, representing 73.9 million Warrants or approximately 83 million common stock equivalents. As of January 3, 2013, the Brookfield Investor's potential ownership of the Company, including the effect of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, is 43.1%, which is stated in their Form 13D filed on the same date. A sensitivity analysis of Brookfield Investor's potential ownership is presented in Item 7. After these transactions, Brookfield Investor has the option with 57,500,000 Warrants to either full share settle (i.e. deliver cash for the exercise price of the Warrants in the amount of approximately $618 million in exchange for approximately 65,000,000 shares of common stock) or net share settle (i.e. receive shares in common stock equivalent to the intrinsic value of the warrant at the time of exercise). The remaining 16,400,000 Warrants held by Brookfield Investor must be net share settled. Due to the Warrants, Brookfield Investor's potential ownership amount will change due to payments of dividends and changes in our stock price. 13 Table of Contents Although the Plan Sponsors have entered into standstill agreements to limit their influence, the concentration of ownership of our outstanding equity in the Plan Sponsors may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Plan Sponsors, or more likely with the support of the Plan Sponsors. The interests of any of the Plan Sponsors, any other substantial stockholder or any of their respective affiliates could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of the holders of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Plan Sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable for us and the other stockholders. A Plan Sponsor, substantial stockholder or affiliate thereof may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We cannot assure you that the standstill agreements can fully protect against these risks. As long as the Plan Sponsors and any other substantial stockholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, subject to the terms of the standstill agreements and were they to act in a coordinated manner, they would be able to exert significant influence over us, including: •the composition of our board of directors, including the right of Brookfield Investor to designate three directors as long as they own 20% or greater as stated under the Investment Agreements, and, through it, any determination with respect to our business; •direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; •the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees; •any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing decisions and our capital raising activities; •the payment of dividends; •conduct in regulatory and legal proceedings; and •amendments to our certificate of incorporation. Some of our directors are involved in other businesses including, without limitation, real estate activities and public and/or private investments and, therefore, may have competing or conflicting interests with us and our board of directors has adopted resolutions renouncing any interest or expectation in any such business opportunities. In addition, our relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield's obligation to present opportunities to us Certain of our directors have and may in the future have interests in other real estate business activities, and may have control or influence over these activities or may serve as investment advisors, directors or officers. These interests and activities, and any duties to third parties arising from such interests and activities, could divert the attention of such directors from our operations. Additionally, certain of our directors are engaged in investment and other activities in which they may learn of real estate and other related opportunities in their non-director capacities. Our board of directors has adopted resolutions applicable to our directors that expressly provide, as permitted by Section 122(17) of the DGCL, that our non-employee directors are not obligated to limit their interests or activities in their non-director capacities or to notify us of any opportunities that may arise in connection therewith, even if the opportunities are complementary to or in competition with our businesses. Accordingly, we have, and investors in our common stock should have, no expectation that we will be able to learn of or participate in such opportunities. Additionally, the relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset 14 Table of Contents Management, Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield Asset Management Inc.'s obligations to present opportunities to us. Liquidity Risks Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility As of December 31, 2012, we have $19.2 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding at our pro rata share, net of noncontrolling interest, which includes $3.1 billion of our share of unconsolidated debt. Our indebtedness may have important consequences to us and the value of our common stock, including: •limiting our ability to borrow significant additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes; •limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to service debt; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given the portion of our indebtedness which bears interest at variable rates; •limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and •giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on our assets. Our debt contains restrictions and covenants which may limit our ability to enter into or obtain funding for certain transactions or operate our business The terms of certain of our debt will require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests, including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage and net worth, or to satisfy similar tests as a precondition to incurring additional debt. We entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility in April 2012 containing such covenants and restrictions. In addition, certain of our indebtedness that was reinstated in connection with the Plan contains restrictions. The covenants and other restrictions under our debt agreements affect, among other things, our ability to: •incur indebtedness; •create liens on assets; •sell assets; •manage our cash flows; •transfer assets to other subsidiaries; •make capital expenditures; •engage in mergers and acquisitions; and •make distributions to equity holders, including holders of our common stock. Further, our ability to incur debt under the indentures governing the unsecured corporate bonds issued by TRCLLC which are expected to remain outstanding through November 2015 (with maturities from 2013), is determined by the calculation of several covenant tests, including ratios of secured debt to gross assets and total debt to gross assets. We expect that TRCLLC and its subsidiaries may need to refinance project-level debt prior to 2015, and our ability to refinance such debt may be limited by 15 Table of Contents these ratios and any potential non-compliance with the covenants may result in TRCLLC seeking other sources of capital, including investments from us, or may result in a default on the reinstated unsecured corporate bonds. Our current plan with respect to the 2013 maturities in to pay down the amount with available capital. In addition, our refinanced debt contains certain terms which include restrictive operational and financial covenants, restrictions on the distribution of cash flows from properties serving as collateral for the debt and, in certain instances, higher interest rates. These fees and cash flow restrictions may affect our ability to fund our on-going operations from our operating cash flows and we may be limited in our operating and financial flexibility and, thus, may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. We may not be able to refinance, extend or repay our Consolidated debt or our portion of indebtedness of our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates As of December 31, 2012, our proportionate share of total debt, including the $206.2 million of Junior Subordinated Notes, aggregated $19.2 billion consisting of our consolidated debt, net of noncontrolling interest, of $16.1 billion combined with our share of the debt of our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates of $3.1 billion. Of our proportionate share of total debt, $1.6 billion is recourse to the Company due to guarantees or other security provisions for the benefit of the note holder. There can be no assurance that we, or the joint venture, will be able to refinance or restructure this debt on acceptable terms or otherwise, or that operations of the properties or contributions by us and/or our partners will be sufficient to repay such loans. If we or the joint venture cannot service this debt, we or the joint venture may have to deed property back to the applicable lenders. We may not be able to raise capital through financing activities Substantially all of our assets are encumbered by property-level indebtedness; therefore, we may be limited in our ability to raise additional capital through property level or other financings. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital could be limited to refinancing existing secured mortgages before their maturity date which may result in yield maintenance or other prepayment penalties to the extent that the mortgage is not open for prepayment at par. We may not be able to raise capital through the sale of properties, including the strategic sale of non-core assets at prices we believe are appropriate We desire to opportunistically sell non-core assets, such as stand-alone office buildings, community shopping centers and certain regional malls. Our ability to sell our properties to raise capital may be limited. The retail economic climate negatively affects the value of our properties and therefore reduces our ability to sell these properties on acceptable terms. Our ability to sell our properties could be affected by the availability of credit, which could increase the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing, as well as by the illiquid nature of real estate. For example, as part of our strategy to further de-lever our balance sheet in order to build liquidity and optimize our portfolio, we plan to reposition certain of our underperforming properties. If we cannot reposition these properties on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to de-lever and realize our strategy of building liquidity and optimizing our portfolio. See "Business Risks" for a further discussion of the effects of the retail economic climate on our properties, as well as the illiquid nature of our investments in our properties. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Distribution of HHC We have indemnified HHC for certain tax liabilities Pursuant to the Investment Agreements, we have indemnified HHC from and against 93.75% of any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and reasonable expenses to which HHC and its subsidiaries become subject, in each case solely to the extent directly attributable to certain taxes related to sales in the Predecessor's Master Planned Communities segment prior to March 31, 2010, in an amount up to $303.8 million as reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. Under certain circumstances, the Company has also agreed to be responsible for interest or penalties attributable to such taxes in excess of $303.8 million. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Refer to Item 7. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 