ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The market for prepaid debit cards and alternative financial services is highly competitive, and competition is increasing as more companies, many that are larger and have greater resources than we do, endeavor to address the needs of underbanked consumers. The market for prepaid debit cards and related alternative financial services is highly competitive. We directly compete with a number of companies that market and serve as program managers for open-loop prepaid debit cards through retail and online distribution, such as Green Dot Corporation, AccountNow, Inc. and Blackhawk Network Inc. Open-loop prepaid debit cards are those that can be used for transactions at any merchant participating in the relevant card association, such as MasterCard or Visa, or network organization, such as PULSE, as opposed to a single merchant. Many of the arrangements that our competitors have with large distributors are long-term and exclusive, which would prevent these distributors from offering our GPR cards during the terms of the arrangements. Many transaction processors, such as First Data Corporation, Total System Services, Inc., and Galileo Processing, Inc., have prepaid platform capability and increasingly compete directly with us for prepaid program management and processing opportunities with large distributors. We also compete with traditional providers of financial services, such as banks that offer demand deposit accounts and card issuers. Similarly, we anticipate increased competition from large retailers seeking to integrate more profitable financial services into their product offerings. For example, Wal-Mart currently offers a prepaid debit card and related services through its stores with our direct competitors Green Dot and Total System Services as the program manager and the processor, respectively. We also anticipate increased competition from alternative financial services providers, who are often well-positioned to service the underbanked and who may wish to develop and manage their own prepaid debit card programs. For example, in the past year, two of our prior retail distributors Pay-O-Matic and Checksmart introduced their own GPR cards through their stores. While the increased desire of banks, retailers and alternative financial services providers to develop prepaid debit card programs frequently creates new business opportunities for us, it could also have an adverse effect on our business, including through increased price competition and loss of distributor relationships. Our ability to grow our business is dependent on our ability to compete effectively against other providers of GPR cards and alternative financial services. Many existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger than we are and may already have or could develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. We may also face price competition that results in decreases in the purchase and use of our products and services. To stay competitive, we may have to increase the incentives that we offer to our retail distributors and decrease the prices of our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating results. The majority of our revenues result from GPR cards marketed pursuant to agreements we have entered into with a small number of retail distributors. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our retail distributors on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our business model substantially depends on establishing agreements with our retail distributors, which primarily consist of alternative financial services providers, as well as grocery and convenience stores and other traditional retailers. While we continually seek to diversify the sources of our revenues and card distribution, the majority of our revenue streams have historically depended on cards distributed through these retail distributors. In 2010, GPR cards distributed through our largest retail distributor, ACE, accounted for approximately 37.5% of our revenues. In June 2010, during the course 16 Table of Contents of negotiations with ACE regarding possible modifications to our distribution agreement, ACE initiated arbitration against us alleging breach of our agreement based on certain activities of our direct-to-consumer and online marketing programs and seeking, among other things, termination of our agreement. We filed a response setting forth the reasons we believed the claims to be without merit, as well as a counterclaim. We have resolved the dispute and entered into a mutual agreement to release and dismiss with prejudice all claims in the arbitration, and reached an agreement on the terms of certain modifications to our existing distribution agreement. In September 2010, we entered into an amendment to our distribution agreement to reflect these modifications, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. However, ACE, or other of our retail distributors, may in the future object to competition from our direct-to-consumer and online marketing programs, and may seek modifications to our agreements or make claims against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The success of our business depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain retailers with a large number of locations that are convenient for our cardholders to purchase and reload our GPR cards. In the future, some of our retail distributors may endeavor to internally develop their own prepaid debit card programs or enter into exclusive relationships with our competitors to distribute their products. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in revenues from, one or more of our top retail distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Most of our retail distribution agreements have terms ranging from three to five years and are typically renewable automatically for subsequent terms of at least one year unless we or the distributor affirmatively elect to discontinue the agreement within the required notice period. If we want to continue a contractual relationship with a retail distributor after the expiration of the agreement, we are typically required to renegotiate the terms of the agreement upon its expiration, and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of the agreement before it expires. Our negotiations to renew some distribution agreements have resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the prior agreements, such as terms that permit the distributors to market prepaid debit cards that compete with our GPR cards. We may not succeed in renewing these agreements when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of revenue from these distributors. If we are required to pay higher revenue-sharing amounts or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our retail distributors, or we are not able to renew our relationships with our retail distributors upon the expiration of our agreements, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. We depend on our distributors' sale and promotion of our products and services, but their interests and operational decisions might not always align with our interests. A significant portion of our operating revenues are derived from our products and services sold at the stores of our retail distributors. Our reliance on these retail distributors means that we do not have direct control over the sales of our cards and, as a result, our future growth is inherently unpredictable. Because we often compete with many other providers of consumer and financial products for placement and promotion of products in the stores of our retail distributors, our success depends on our retail distributors and their willingness to promote our products and services successfully. In general, our contracts with these third parties allow them to exercise significant discretion over the placement and promotion of our products in their stores, and they could give higher priority to the products and services of other prepaid debit card providers. In many instances, our retail distributors have greater incentives to promote other products or services to consumers. If our retailers do not actively and effectively promote the sale of our cards, our growth will be limited and our operating results will suffer. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business. As an agent of, and third-party service provider to, our issuing banks, we are subject to indirect regulation and direct audit and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the OTS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the FRB, the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance, or the GDBF, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. We are also subject to direct regulation by those states in which we are licensed as a money transmitter. We have historically taken the position that state money transmitter statutes do not apply to our business for a number of reasons. We discuss this in greater detail under "Business—Regulation—Money Transmitter and Payment Instrument Laws and Regulations." In the event that a state regulatory authority were to disagree with our position that we are not required to be licensed in any of the states in which we are not currently licensed, it is possible that we, our distributors or our issuing banks could become subject to regulatory enforcement or other proceedings, which could in turn have a significant adverse impact on our business, even if we were to ultimately prevail in such proceedings. In such event, we may have additional arguments available to us that we should not be subject to the licensing requirements under the relevant state money transmitter statutes, and may utilize one or more of these arguments at such time. However, it is possible that we could be unsuccessful in making a persuasive argument that we should not be subject to such licensing requirements, and could be deemed to be in violation of one or more of the state money transmitter statutes. Such failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer some or all of our prepaid debit cards in the relevant jurisdiction, civil liability and criminal liability, each of which would likely have material adverse impact on our revenues. On March 23, 2010, the FRB issued a final rule implementing Title IV of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, which imposes requirements relating to disclosures, fees and expiration dates that are generally applicable to gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards. We believe that our GPR cards, and the maintenance fees charged on our GPR cards, are exempt from the requirements under this rule, as they fall within an express exclusion for cards which are reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate. However, this exclusion is not available if the issuer, the retailer selling the card to a consumer or the program manager promotes, even if occasionally, the use of the card as a gift card or gift certificate. As a result, we provide retailers with instructions and policies regarding the display and promotion of our GPR cards. It is possible, however, that despite our instructions and policies to the contrary, a retailer engaged in offering our GPR cards to consumers could take an action with respect to one or more of the cards that would cause each similar card to be viewed as being marketed or labeled as a gift card, such as by placing our GPR cards on a display which prominently features the availability of gift cards and does not separate or otherwise distinguish our GPR cards from the gift cards. In such event, it is possible that such GPR cards would lose their eligibility for such exclusion to the CARD Act and the rule's requirements, and therefore could be deemed to be in violation of the CARD Act and the rule, which could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our GPR cards, civil liability, criminal liability, and the inability of our issuing banks to apply certain fees to our GPR cards, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. As the laws applicable to our business, and those of our distributors and issuing banks, change frequently, are often unclear and may differ or conflict between jurisdictions, ensuring compliance has become more difficult and costly. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us, our issuing banks or our distributors to comply with all applicable statutes and regulations could result in fines, penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, civil liability, criminal liability, and/or limitations on our ability to 18 Table of Contents operate our business, each of which could significantly harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our retail distributors are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulations and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our ability to offer our GPR cards through their locations, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. As each of our retail distributors offering prepaid cards and related services conducts such activity either as an agent of our issuing banks or, where applicable, of NetSpend in its capacity as a licensed money transmitter, we do not believe that our distributors would be required to become licensed as money transmitters in order to engage in such activity. However, there is a risk that a federal or state regulator will take a contrary position and initiate enforcement or other proceedings against a distributor, us or our issuing banks, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, even if the relevant party were to ultimately prevail in such proceedings. In such event, the relevant party may have additional arguments available to it that the retail distributor should not be subject to the licensing requirements under the relevant state money transmitter statutes, and may utilize one or more of these arguments at such time. However, it is possible that the relevant party could be unsuccessful in making a persuasive argument that the retail distributor should not be subject to such licensing requirements, and therefore could be deemed to be in violation of one or more of the state money transmitter statutes. Such failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of the distributor's ability to offer some or all of our GPR cards and related services in the relevant jurisdiction, civil liability and criminal liability, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Our retail distributors include a large number of companies in industries that are highly regulated, such as alternative financial services providers. It is possible that changes in the legal regime governing such businesses could limit the ability of some of our retail distributors to distribute our products or adversely impact their business, and thereby have an indirect adverse impact on our business. For example, a large number of states have either prohibited, or imposed substantial restrictions upon, the offering of "payday loans," and this activity continues to draw substantial scrutiny from federal and state legislatures, regulatory authorities and various consumer groups. Furthermore, the federal financial reform legislation enacted in July 2010 grants supervisory authority over entities engaged in this activity to a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is directed to promulgate regulations which may significantly impact the operations and/or viability of various entities, including those engaged in the business of offering payday loans. As a number of our retail distributors, including our largest distributor, ACE Cash Express, are engaged in offering payday loans, further legislative and regulatory restrictions which negatively impact their ability to continue their operations could have a corresponding negative impact on our ability to offer our GPR cards through their locations, potentially resulting in a significant decline in our revenue. In addition, various states have statutes that limit the ability of check cashers to charge a fee for cashing government-issued checks. We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation relating to the distribution of our GPR cards through corporate employers and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business. We understand that state banking departments, which are charged with regulating the business of money transmission, have traditionally taken the position that the offering of payroll cards does not constitute money transmission, such that we would not be required to obtain a state money transmission license in order to engage in such activity. We believe that our marketing, distribution and servicing of GPR cards through corporate employers as a program manager and third-party service provider to our issuing banks is not subject to regulation under state money transmitter statutes as we do not handle any related consumer funds at any time. However, there is a risk that a federal or state 19 Table of Contents regulator will take a contrary position and initiate enforcement or other proceedings against us or our issuing banks, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, even if we were to ultimately prevail in such proceedings. In such event, we may have arguments other than those described above that we should not be subject to the licensing requirements under the relevant state money transmitter statutes, and may utilize one or more of these arguments at such time. However, it is possible that we could be unsuccessful in making a persuasive argument that we should not be subject to such licensing requirements, and could be deemed to be in violation of one or more of the state money transmitter statutes. Such failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our GPR cards through corporate employers in the relevant jurisdiction, civil liability and criminal liability, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. The use of payroll cards as a means for an employer to remit wages or other compensation to its employees or independent contractors is also governed by state labor laws related to wage payments. Most states permit the use of payroll cards as a method of paying wages to employees, either through statutory provisions allowing such use, or, in the absence of specific statutory guidance, the adoption by state labor departments of formal or informal policies allowing for the use of such cards. There are a few states, specifically Georgia, New Mexico and Rhode Island, which do not have statutes and regulations that specifically provide for the use of payroll cards, and have taken the position, through the state labor department, that state law prohibits the use of payroll cards for the purpose of remitting wages or other compensation. Nearly every state allowing payroll cards places certain requirements and/or restrictions on their use as a wage payment method, the most common of which involve obtaining the prior written consent of the relevant employee, limitations on payroll card fees, and disclosure requirements. There is a risk that one or more states or state labor departments that currently permit the use of payroll cards as a wage payment method will take a contrary position, either through revised legislation, regulation or policies, as applicable, or will impose additional requirements on the provision and use of such cards, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business. Limitations on the amount of interchange fees that may be charged to merchants which are fixed by the card associations and network organizations could decrease our revenues and negatively impact our business and financial performance. A material portion of our operating revenues is derived from our share of the fees charged to merchants for services provided in settling transactions routed through the networks of the card associations and network organizations, commonly known as "interchange fees." For the year ended December 31, 2010, revenues from interchange fees represented approximately 21.6% of our total operating revenues, and we expect interchange revenues to continue to represent a material percentage of our total operating revenues in the near term. The amounts of these interchange fees are currently fixed by the card associations and network organizations in their sole discretion. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted legislation which requires the amount of interchange fees charged to merchants in connection with transactions utilizing traditional debit cards and certain prepaid cards issued by financial institutions that, together with their affiliates, have assets of $10 billion or more, to be reasonable and proportionate to the costs of the underlying transactions. The new legislation also generally gave the FRB the power to regulate the amount of such interchange fees and required FRB to promulgate regulations establishing standards for determining when interchange fees are reasonable and proportionate to the costs of the underlying transactions. The FRB published proposed regulations in December 2010. The final regulations are scheduled to be published in April 2011 and become effective in July 2011. The proposed regulations prescribe limits on interchange fees that are below the current rates set by the card associations and network organizations. While we believe that the exemption of GPR cards and small issuing banks, such as MetaBank, Inter National Bank and The Bancorp Bank, from the legislation will apply to our GPR card programs, it remains 20 Table of Contents possible that as a result of the legislation the card associations and network organizations that set interchange rates could reduce the current rates of interchange fees applicable to transactions conducted by our cardholders, which would decrease our revenues and profit and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the exemption of GPR cards from the legislation is not available if, after the one year anniversary of the law's effective date, the GPR card can be charged an overdraft fee or a fee for the first ATM withdrawal per month at a designated ATM network. Depending on the manner in which the limitations are clarified in the final regulations, and whether we elect after the effectiveness of such rules to charge such fees, these limitations may in the future limit our ability to benefit from interchange regulation exemptions for GPR cards, or decrease the opportunity to earn additional revenue from overdraft or ATM fees we might otherwise elect to charge. Additionally, even if some or all of our GPR cards were exempt from any such interchange fee restrictions, it is possible that such an exemption may be difficult to preserve if the relevant card associations or network organizations do not provide any mechanism that enables the recognition of the exemption in processing transactions, which could result in a material adverse impact on our revenues. The new legislation additionally requires the FRB to issue regulations that would enable merchants to have a choice of payment networks over which to route debit transactions. The FRB could issue final regulations which require us to modify our systems and processes to enable merchants to settle signature debit transactions conducted by our cardholders through multiple networks, which would increase our operating expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs of operation, decrease our operating revenues and constrain the terms and conditions of our products and services. State and federal legislatures and regulatory authorities have become increasingly focused upon the regulation of the financial services industry, and continue to adopt new legislation which could result in significant changes in the regulatory landscape for financial institutions (such as our issuing banks) and other financial services companies (including our business). For example, changes in the way we or our issuing banks are regulated, such as the changes under the federal financial reform legislation enacted in July 2010 related to the consolidation of the OTS into the OCC and the establishment of a federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with oversight over us and our products and services, could expose us to increased regulatory oversight and more burdensome regulation of our business and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenue. Additionally, changes to the disclosures which must be provided with our products and services, or limitations placed on the fees that may be applied to our products and services could negatively impact our financial position by increasing our costs and reducing our revenue. Furthermore, states may adopt statutes which could limit the application of certain fees or otherwise increase the costs incurred, or negatively impact the revenue received, by our issuing banks in connection with the provision of our prepaid debit cards, which would have an indirect adverse impact on our revenue. Finally, if the federal or one or more state governments impose additional legislative or regulatory requirements on us, our issuing banks or our distributors, or prohibits or limits our activities as currently conducted, we may be required to modify or terminate some or all of our products and services offered in the relevant jurisdiction or certain of our issuing banks may terminate their relationship with us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. For example, we were recently informed by MetaBank that OTS had issued a supervisory directive directing MetaBank to discontinue offering its iAdvance product based on a determination by OTS that MetaBank engaged in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in connection with its operation of the iAdvance program. In addition, in January 2011 the Department of the Treasury issued an interim final rule that would prohibit the electronic deposit of federal benefits, wages and tax refunds to prepaid debit cards 21 Table of Contents that do not meet certain criteria, including that the card not have an attached line of credit or loan feature that triggers automatic repayment from the card. The cardholder must also be afforded all of the consumer protections that apply to a payroll card. The public comment period for the rule expires in April 2011. While we believe that our GPR cards comply with the interim final rule in all respects, the Department of the Treasury could change the rule in light of the comments it receives during the public comment period in a manner that would limit or prohibit the electronic deposit of federal benefits, wages and tax refunds onto our GPR cards, which would result in a material adverse impact on our revenues. Our card programs are subject to strict regulation under federal law regarding anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing. Failure to comply with such laws, or abuse of our card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and other federal law impose substantial regulation of financial institutions designed to prevent use of financial services for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of our industry with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing matters could result in more aggressive enforcement of such laws or more onerous regulation, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, abuse of our prepaid card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, notwithstanding our efforts to prevent such abuse through our regulatory compliance and risk management programs, could cause reputational or other harm that would have a material adverse impact on our business. On June 21, 2010, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act's anti-money laundering provisions to prepaid products and other matters related to the regulation of money services businesses. This rulemaking would create additional obligations for entities, including our distributors, engaged in the provision and sale of certain prepaid products, including our prepaid debit cards, such as the obligation for sellers of prepaid debit cards to obtain identification information from the purchaser at the point-of-sale. Compliance with these obligations may result in increased compliance costs for us, our issuing banks and our distributors, and may therefore have a negative impact on the profitability of our business. Additionally, the imposition of such obligations upon sellers of prepaid debit cards may cause some of our distributors to determine that they do not wish to continue offering our prepaid debit cards for sale or reload, which could also have a significant negative impact on our business. However, as the proposed rulemaking is subject to further comment and revision, it is difficult to determine with any certainty what obligations the final rulemaking might impose or what impact they might have on our business or that of our issuing banks or distributors. At certain times in our history we have been registered with FinCEN as a "money services business," and therefore have been subject to certain anti-money laundering compliance obligations arising under the Bank Secrecy Act and its implementing regulations. However, we subsequently concluded that we were not required to be registered as a money services business, did not renew our registration and have requested, but not yet received, a formal written opinion from FinCEN to confirm our conclusion. Accordingly, while we do have certain anti-money laundering compliance obligations, these obligations arise contractually under the agreements that we have with each of our issuing banks. It is possible that we may at some future date be required to re-register as a money services business, whether due to a notification from FinCEN that we are required to register under the current requirements or new regulatory requirements such as those contained in the proposed rulemaking described above. In the event that we are required to become registered as a money services business, we may become subject to additional compliance obligations not currently undertaken, which could result in increased costs and a corresponding decrease in our revenue. 22 Table of Contents The loss of, or changes to, our relationships with MetaBank or our other issuing banks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. We rely on the arrangements we have with our issuing banks to provide us with critical products and services, including the FDIC-insured depository accounts tied to our GPR cards, access to the ATM networks, membership in the card associations and network organizations and other banking services. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 74% of our active cards were issued through MetaBank. MetaBank is our preferred issuing bank and has designated us as a preferred program manager for prepaid debit cards. If our relationship with MetaBank deteriorates or if we lose our position as a preferred program manager of MetaBank, it could hinder our ability to grow our business and have an adverse impact on our operating results. If any material adverse event were to affect MetaBank or one or more of our other issuing banks, including as a result of the recent directives issued by OTS against MetaBank, a significant decline in their financial condition, a decline in the quality of their services, loss of deposits, their inability to comply with applicable banking and financial service regulatory requirements, systems failure or their inability to pay us fees, or if we were to lose MetaBank or one or more of our other issuing banks as an issuing bank, we would be forced to find an alternative provider of these critical banking services. See "Business—Issuing Bank Relationships." Furthermore, as our issuing banks have appointed us and our distributors as their agents for purposes of providing services in connection with our prepaid debit cards in various states, the termination of our relationship with one or more of our issuing banks would force us and our distributors to cease offering prepaid debit cards and related services to the extent that we rely on our status as an agent of our issuing banks in order to do so. We may not be able to find a replacement bank on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Any change in our issuing banks could disrupt our business or result in arrangements with new banks that are less favorable to us than those we have with our existing issuing banks, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, under our arrangements with our issuing banks, we have agreed upon sharing of certain revenues, costs and expenses. Changes in these arrangements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our future growth and financial success will be harmed if there is a decline in the use of prepaid debit cards as a payment mechanism or if there is a decrease in demand for alternative financial services. We focus on the marketing and sale of GPR cards and related alternative financial services to the underbanked consumer market. Our strategic focus is dependent upon general growth in the demand for prepaid services, which has been forecasted by a number of third party industry analysts, some of whom are cited in this prospectus. As the prepaid financial services industry matures, consumers may find prepaid financial services to be less attractive than traditional bank solutions. Further, other alternatives to prepaid services may develop and limit the growth of, or cause a decline in the demand for, prepaid debit cards. In addition, negative publicity in the prepaid industry may drive consumers to other financial services providers. If the growth in demand does not increase at the rate we expect or as some industry analysts are predicting, our ability to grow could be limited and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our business is dependent on our continued participation in the card associations and network organizations, and the termination of our participation in the card associations or network organizations or changes in the card association or network organization rules could materially adversely affect our business. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the compensation paid by our issuing banks for the program management and processing services that we provide in support of our prepaid debit cards. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for membership in the card associations or network organizations. The rules and regulations of the card associations and network organizations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process prepaid debit card transactions and serve as a program 23 Table of Contents manager or member service provider of our issuing banks' prepaid debit card programs. We currently participate in the card associations and network organizations as a program manager and third-party processor of our card programs through sponsorship by our issuing banks. The card associations and network organizations frequently amend their rules and regulations. If we or one of our issuing banks fails to comply with the rules and regulations of the card associations or network organizations, or we fail to comply with the applicable program requirements of our issuing banks, the card associations and network organizations could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in the card associations and network organizations or levy fines against us. We pay sponsorship, licensing and processing fees to card associations and network organizations for services they provide in processing transactions routed through their networks. The amounts of these fees are currently fixed by the card associations and network organizations in their sole discretion, and are subject to increase at any time. We may pass through to our cardholders increases in these fees, but competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of such increases through to our cardholders in the future. To the extent that we are unable to do so, our cost of revenues would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The termination of our participation in the card associations and network organizations, or any changes in their rules and regulations or our issuing banks' program requirements that would impair our participation in the card associations and network organizations, could require us to alter or suspend processing services that we provide to the issuing banks with respect to our prepaid debit cards, which would adversely affect our business. Further, if any of our issuing banks loses its sponsorship in the card associations and network organizations, and we are unable to secure another bank to sponsor us as a program manager and third-party processor with such card association or network organization, we will not be able to process transactions with respect to our prepaid debit cards and our business would be adversely affected. Unauthorized disclosure of cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation. We collect and store personally identifiable information about our cardholders, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers, and maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including account numbers, in order to process transactions and prevent fraud. As a result, we are required to comply with the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, various other federal and state privacy statutes and regulations, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, each of which is subject to change at any time. Compliance with these requirements is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or our distributors' failure, to comply may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our issuing banks and termination of our agreements with one or more of our issuing banks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or operations. In addition, a significant breach could result in our being prohibited from processing transactions for any of the relevant card associations or network organizations, including Visa, MasterCard or PULSE, which would also have a significant material adverse impact on our financial position and/or operations. Furthermore, if our computer systems are breached by unauthorized users, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes, or failure to comply with laws governing notification of such breaches. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the relevant card associations or network organizations. 24 Table of Contents Finally, any data breach or failure to comply with any applicable privacy requirements could result in damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our prepaid cards, cause our issuing banks or distributors to cease doing business with us, or lead to greater regulation, each of which could have a significant material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position or potential for growth. The information technology systems and networks maintained by us and the third parties on whom we rely could fail due to factors, including those beyond our control, which could negatively impact our existing customer relationships and our business reputation. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our end-to-end operational and technology platform, which is comprised of a complex system of computers, software, data centers and networks, as well as the systems of a wide variety of third parties, including our issuing banks, distributors, card associations, network organizations and processors, in which we have limited control. These systems may be prone to periodic failure and outages. Our end-to-end operational and technology platform, and the third party networks and systems on which it relies, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate for all losses or failures that may occur. These failures could negatively impact our existing customer relationships and our business reputation. We and our distributors may be subject to claims of infringement. The technologies used in the payments industry are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement and misappropriation claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations or the equipment, software or services we use or provide. In the past, certain third parties have asserted or suggested the possibility of asserting patent infringement claims against us. In two instances, we have entered into patent license agreements with such third parties. In 2003, Alexsam, Inc. asserted a claim of patent infringement against us. Alexsam dismissed the claim without prejudice less than one month later pursuant to the parties' agreement to negotiate a patent license agreement. We subsequently entered into a license agreement with Alexsam that gave us the option to begin using Alexsam's patents (if we so chose) in exchange for royalties, but provided that we would not owe Alexsam royalties for the use of our existing systems. In 2008, we received a letter from Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P., or RAKTL, which contained an offer for us to acquire a license under the RAKTL portfolio of patents related to certain interactive voice response technologies. In 2010, we entered into a release and contingent license agreement with RAKTL relating to the RAKTL portfolio of patents. Whether or not an infringement or misappropriation claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management's attention and involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay past and future royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights then in use, we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights then in use. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. In addition, our distributors may be subject to infringement or misappropriation claims that if successful could preclude the distributor from distributing our products and services or cause the distributor to increase the fees they charge us. In addition, if claims made against our distributors arise out of their distribution of our products and services, we are required to indemnify them against any losses. We may not be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement or misappropriation claim involving our licensors and suppliers who provide us with the software and technology that we use in our business. In addition, any such suppliers may refuse to, or may be unable to, pay any damages or honor their defense and indemnification obligations to us, which may result in us having to bear such losses. 25 Table of Contents We have entered into outsourcing and other agreements related to certain business operations, and any difficulties experienced in these arrangements could result in additional expense, loss of cardholders and revenue or an interruption of our services. We have entered into outsourcing agreements with third parties to provide certain customer service and related support functions to our cardholder, including the outsourcing of customer service through facilities located in Mexico and the Philippines. As a result, we must rely on third parties over which we have limited control to perform certain of our operations and, in certain circumstances, interface with our cardholders. In addition, it may be difficult to continue to outsource customer support services to facilities outside of the U.S. If these third parties are unable to perform to our requirements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies to provide these services, which could result in delays, interruptions, additional expenses and loss of cardholders. We have also entered into contracts with third-party vendors to provide certain services, technology and software. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, discontinue their lines of business, terminate our contractual arrangements or cease or reduce operations, we may be required to pursue new third-party relationships, which could disrupt our operations, increase the costs of these services, technology or software and divert management's time and resources. If we are unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services, which could disrupt services to our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks and write-offs resulting from fraudulent activities and losses from overdrawn cardholder accounts, which could adversely impact our financial performance and results of operations. Our prepaid cards expose us to counterfeit threats through the misuse of such cards, collusion, fraud, identity theft and systemic attacks on our systems. An additional threat is the theft of cards in a retail environment. Although these stolen cards are not active and thus not able to be used, theft or attempted misuse of our prepaid debit cards could nonetheless cause reputational harm. While a large portion of fraudulent activity is addressed through the chargeback systems and procedures maintained by the card associations and network organizations, we are often responsible for losses that result from transactions in small amounts that are fraudulently forced by merchants through the settlement systems maintained by the card associations and network organizations without prior authorization for which it is not economically feasible to pursue chargebacks. The systems and procedures we have established to detect and reduce the impact of fraud may not be entirely effective and, as a result, incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our write-off liability and could harm our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, certain of our cardholders may attempt to utilize their prepaid debit cards for purchase transactions which exceed the amount of funds available in their card accounts. While we generally decline authorization attempts for such transactions in accordance with the policies and procedures established by our issuing banks, card accounts may become overdrawn through the application of card association and network organization rules and regulations, the timing of the settlement of card transactions and the assessment of subscription, maintenance or other fees charged by our issuing banks. We also provide certain cardholders with a "cushion" which allows them to overdraw their card accounts. In any such event, we may be liable to our issuing banks for the resulting overdrawn account balance. Finally, eligible cardholders may enroll in overdraft programs offered by certain of our issuing banks, pursuant to which the issuing bank, in its sole discretion, funds certain prepaid debit card transactions that exceed the available balance in the relevant card account. While this is a discretionary 26 Table of Contents service offered by the issuing bank to eligible cardholders, we are responsible to our issuing banks for any losses associated with these overdrawn account balances. We maintain reserves intended to cover the risk that we may not recover losses resulting from fraudulent activities and from our cardholders' overdrawn account balances. The provision for these cardholder related losses resulted in $2.4 million, $4.9 million and $10.3 million of expense during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, but our exposure may increase above these levels for a variety of reasons, including our failure to predict the actual recovery rate, failure to effectively manage risk, and failure to prevent fraud. Accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we incur losses resulting from overdrawn cardholder accounts and fraudulent activity which exceed our designated reserves, or we determine that it is necessary to increase our reserves substantially in order to address any increased recovery risk. If any of the large retailers in our distribution and reload network fails to remit the cardholders' funds they collect in connection with the load or reload of cards to our issuing banks, we may reimburse our issuing banks for such funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. A significant portion of our business is conducted through retailers that provide load and reload services to our cardholders at their retail locations. Members of our distribution and reload network collect our cardholders' funds and are contractually required to remit them by electronic transfer directly to our issuing banks for deposit in the cardholder accounts. Our issuing banks typically receive our cardholders' funds no earlier than three business days after they are collected by the retailer. If a retailer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit funds to our issuing banks, we typically reimburse our issuing banks for such funds. Given the unprecedented volatility in global financial markets and the economic challenges facing the U.S., the approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our retail distributors may be inadequate, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to mitigate an increased credit risk in a timely manner. If in the future any of the large retailers in our reload network for any reason fails to remit funds to our issuing banks and we reimburse our issuing banks for such funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The lack of a strong brand name or inability to maintain or strengthen our brand may reduce our ability to retain and attract customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Many of our cards are principally branded with the trademarks of our distributors. Accordingly, many of our customers do not have a strong awareness of the NetSpend brand and may not associate our products and services with us. Increasing brand awareness among distributors and ultimate consumers is an important part of our strategy to grow our business. Developing, promoting and maintaining our brand and image requires a consistent capital investment and expense, and this investment in our brand and image may not be successful. If we fail to develop, promote and maintain our brand and image, we may not be able to grow our customer base and our financial and operational results may suffer. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing payment processing industry, other public companies and the selected markets in which we offer our products and services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers would have an 27 Table of Contents adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified management and technical personnel as we grow, and we may be unable to attract, manage or retain such personnel. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we may also be vulnerable to successful attempts by our competitors to hire our employees. We may not increase cardholder direct deposit participation and therefore may not achieve all of our strategic growth objectives. Product features such as direct deposit loading onto reloadable prepaid debit cards have increased the attractiveness of such cards and increased their utility to underbanked consumers. Because direct deposit active cardholders on average initiate more debit transactions and generate more revenues for us than active cardholders without direct deposit, increasing cardholder adoption of direct deposit is an important part of our strategy. We are devoting significant resources to the further development of our direct deposit programs, and our growth profile depends on a resulting increase in direct deposit participation by our cardholders. Some of our existing contracts with our retail distributors prohibit us from directly promoting direct deposit to their customers. It is possible that other distributors will in the future insist on similar restrictions, which could limit our ability to grow direct deposit participation. If we are unable to increase direct deposit participation as projected, we will be unable to meet our growth projections, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Business, political and economic factors may affect our operations, the manner in which we conduct our business and our rate of growth. The U.S. economy has deteriorated significantly over the last three years and unemployment rates have risen. If economic conditions and unemployment rates continue to deteriorate or do not improve, our target consumer base may be disproportionately affected due to the generally lower incomes of the consumers of our products. In addition, a large proportion of our target customers work in industries that may be disproportionately affected by a downturn in the U.S. economy. Stagnant economic growth and high unemployment are likely to negatively affect our customers' ability to purchase new services from us and the use of our GPR cards to purchase good and services. The resulting impact of such economic conditions on our customers and on consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our services and on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have engaged, and may engage in the future, in mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We acquired Skylight Financial, Inc., or Skylight, in 2008 to add its employer distribution network to our retail distribution, direct-to-consumer and online marketing efforts. We may in the future further expand our distribution channels, technology platform or other aspects of our business through the acquisition of other businesses, assets or technologies. Any such transactions can entail risk, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, and may create operating and financial challenges, including: •difficulty integrating the acquired technologies, services, products, operations and personnel of the acquired business; •disruption to our existing business; •increased regulatory and compliance requirements; •negative impact on our cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital; •inability to achieve projected synergies; 28 Table of Contents •increasing costs and complexity associated with the maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures; and •loss of key personnel. The anticipated benefit to us of any strategic transactions, acquisitions or mergers may never materialize. For example, in 2008 we recorded an impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets related to our acquisition of Skylight in the amount of $26.3 million. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, a reduction in our cash reserves, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends in part on developing and protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, as well as licenses of intellectual property from third parties, to protect our intellectual property and conduct our business in a manner that does not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of third parties. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. We have one patent registered and four patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, including applications related to our payment processing platform and business methods. These patent applications may not become issued patents. If they do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions. Existing laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights or registrations granted to us may provide an inadequate competitive advantage to us or be too narrow to protect our products and services. The protections outlined above may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology and may not prevent our competitors from copying, infringing, or misappropriating our products and services. It is possible that others will independently develop, design around or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to anticipate rapid changes in technology may negatively affect demand for our services in the marketplace. The electronic payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to our industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently utilize in our products and services. Additionally, we may make future investments in, or enter into strategic alliances to develop, new technologies and services or to implement changes to our operating platform to further our growth prospects, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. However, our ability to transition to new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a lack of industry-wide standards, by resistance from our distributors, network acceptance members, third-party network processors or consumers to these changes, or by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. These initiatives are inherently risky, 29 Table of Contents and they may not be successful or may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and some of our third-party suppliers are susceptible to the occurrence of catastrophic events, which could impair our ability to operate our business. We and some of the third-party services providers on which we rely are vulnerable to damage from catastrophic events, such as power loss, natural disasters, terrorism and similar events beyond our control. Some of the third-party providers we rely on to provide customer service and related support functions to our customers are located in developing nations such as Mexico and the Philippines, which may make our products and services more susceptible to certain events, including political upheavals, war, terrorist attacks, strikes, natural disasters and pandemics. If we or our suppliers experience any of these events, our systems and networks may not function properly, we may lose customers and revenues, and we may have difficulty attracting new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the business interruption insurance we carry may not cover any or all of the losses we may experience as a result of such events. Any significant losses that are not covered by insurance could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our new credit agreement and the maximum amounts we are contractually permitted to borrow may restrict our current and future operations and limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. In September 2010, we entered into a new revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks with SunTrust Bank as administrative agent. This new credit agreement provides a revolving credit facility of $135.0 million. The new credit agreement is unconditionally guaranteed and secured by virtually all of the assets of our existing and future subsidiaries. The new credit agreement contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive financial and non-financial covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including requirements that we maintain certain liquidity levels and financial ratios and certain restrictions on our ability to make investments, pay dividends or sell assets. While we currently believe that we will be able to meet all of the financial covenants that are imposed by our new credit agreement, we may not in fact be able to do so. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our new credit agreement could result in an event of default which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under our new credit agreement, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts. The acceleration of indebtedness under our new credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the current restrictions and requirements contained in this new credit agreement, the maximum amounts we are contractually permitted to borrow under the new credit agreement could limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. These restrictions and requirements could have negative consequences for us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or financing may not be available to us on favorable terms; •we would need a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay the interest and, at maturity in September 2015, the principal on our indebtedness, including indebtedness that we may incur in the future, which would reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; 30 Table of Contents •a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to repay our indebtedness at maturity and force us to modify our operations and to comply with the financial covenants contained in the new credit agreement; •our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors to an increasingly competitive environment, and to a downturn in either our business or the economy generally; and •because our debt has a variable rate of interest, it exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates. As a public company, we are subject to reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy, will continue to raise our costs and may divert resources and management attention from operating our business. We recently became a public company on October 18, 2010 and as such have become subject to certain reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which have imposed significant new compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting must be assessed by management each year commencing with the year ending December 31, 2011. We do not currently have comprehensive documentation of our internal control over financial reporting, nor do we document our compliance with these controls on a periodic basis in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Furthermore, we have not tested our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 and, due to our lack of documentation, this testing would not be possible at this time. If we were unable to implement the controls and procedures required by Section 404 in a timely manner or otherwise to comply with Section 404, management might not be able to certify, and our independent registered public accounting firm might not be able to report on, the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we might be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and might suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violate Nasdaq Stock Market listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, if we are unable to implement the controls and procedures required by Section 404 effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm. The changes necessitated by becoming a public company have required and will continue to require a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight that will continue to increase our costs and might place a strain on our systems and resources. As a result, our management's attention might be diverted from other business concerns. In addition, we might not be successful in implementing and maintaining controls and procedures that comply with these requirements. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment or to comply with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements imposed on public companies, we could make material errors in, and be required to restate, our financial statements. Any such restatement could result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions imposed on us by the SEC. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We have a limited trading history, and our stock price may be volatile. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering in October 2010, our common stock was not listed on a national exchange or publicly traded. As an issuer which has recently become listed on a national exchange, the market price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the factors described in this "Risk Factors" section or otherwise, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuations of technology companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to securities class action litigation. Any securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2010, we had 88,170,381 shares outstanding. Approximately 69,345,245 shares, or approximately 79% of our outstanding shares at that date, are subject to lock-up agreements entered into by our directors, executive officers, and stockholders with the underwriters in connection with our initial public offering in October 2010. Upon expiration of the lock-up period, which will occur on or around April 16, 2011, all of those shares, other than shares held by our affiliates, will become eligible for sale in the public market without restriction. Shares held by our affiliates will also become eligible for sale, subject to the restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, under our amended and restated registration rights agreement, certain of our stockholders will have the ability to require us to file a registration statement with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. If we register their shares of common stock following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or result in a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •the ability of our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms determined by our board of directors and to issue additional shares of our common stock; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. 32 Table of Contents The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% (or 80% in the case of the provision related to stockholder action by written consent) of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. We believe that the trading price for our common stock will be affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may elect to cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not intend to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 