ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risks Regional and local economic conditions may adversely affect our business Our real property investments are influenced by the regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, increased unemployment, lack of availability of consumer credit, increased levels of consumer debt, poor housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors. Similarly, local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the supply and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants may affect the ability of our properties to generate significant revenue. Economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and available cash Unemployment, weak income growth, tight credit and the need to pay down existing obligations may negatively impact consumer spending. Given these economic conditions, we believe there is a risk that the sales at stores operating in our malls may be adversely affected. This may hinder our ability to implement our strategies and may have an unfavorable effect on our operations and our ability to attract new tenants. We may be unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties on favorable terms or at all Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue to strategically lease space in our properties, including re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix or leasing properties on more economically favorable terms. Because approximately eight to nine percent of our total leases expire annually, we are continually focused on our ability to lease properties and collect rents from tenants. Similarly, we are pursuing a strategy of replacing expiring short-term leases with long-term leases. If the sales at certain stores operating in our regional malls do not improve sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants' sales do not improve, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. In addition, some of our leases are fixed-rate leases, and we may not be able to collect rent sufficient to meet our costs. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and available cash would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations. The bankruptcy or store closures of national tenants, which are tenants with chains of stores in many of our properties, may adversely affect our revenues Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant, and in recent years a number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores. We may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a national tenant may adversely affect our revenues. Certain co-tenancy provisions in our lease agreements may result in reduced rent payments, which may adversely affect our operations and occupancy Many of our lease agreements include a co-tenancy provision which allows the tenant to pay a reduced rent amount and, in certain instances, terminate the lease, if we fail to maintain certain occupancy levels. Therefore, if occupancy or tenancy falls below certain thresholds, rents we are 15 entitled to receive from our retail tenants could be reduced and may limit our ability to attract new tenants. It may be difficult to sell real estate quickly, and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may limit our ability to strategically change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available to us. Our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties, and our inability to maintain a positive perception may adversely affect our revenues We are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. If retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the internet to be more convenient or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected. We redevelop and expand properties, and this activity is subject to risks due to various economic factors that are beyond our control Capital investment to expand or redevelop our properties will be an ongoing part of our strategy going forward. In connection with such projects, we will be subject to various risks, including the following: •we may not have sufficient capital to proceed with planned redevelopment or expansion activities; •we may abandon redevelopment or expansion activities already under way, which may result in additional cost recognition; •construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; •we may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required governmental permits and authorizations; •occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable; and •we may not be able to obtain anchor store, mortgage lender and property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or redevelopment activities. If redevelopment, expansion or reinvestment projects are unsuccessful, our investments in those projects may not be fully recoverable from future operations or sales. We are in a competitive business There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other 16 regional malls, outlet malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, and through internet sales and telemarketing. Competition of these types could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate a large portfolio of high quality malls, maintain good relationships with our tenants and consumers, and remain well-capitalized, and our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes and oil spills. For example, our properties in the Gulf of Mexico region could suffer economically from reduced tourism as result of the oil spill in 2010. In addition, certain of our properties are located in California or in other areas with higher risk of earthquakes. Furthermore, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future increases in sea levels. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Future terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage (investigation and/or clean-up costs) incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell, lease or borrow with respect to the real estate. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of 17 underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of certain properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. However, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. Some potential losses are not insured We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience decreasing tenant sales which may result in lower revenues. However, substantially all of our tenant leases contain provisions designed to partially mitigate the negative impact of inflation as discussed in Item 7 below, which discussion is incorporated by reference here. Inflation also poses a risk to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt. In certain cases, we have previously limited our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to a portion of our variable-rate debt by the use of interest rate cap and swap agreements. Such agreements, subject to current market conditions, allow us to replace variable-rate debt with fixed-rate debt in order to achieve our desired ratio of variable-rate to fixed rate date. However, in an increasing interest rate environment the fixed rates we can obtain with such replacement fixed-rate cap and swap agreements or the fixed-rate on new debt will also continue to increase. Inflation also poses a potential risk to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt. Organizational Risks We are a holding company with no operations of our own and will depend on our subsidiaries for cash Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. Our ability to make dividends or distributions in connection with being a REIT is highly dependent on the earnings of and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or distributions, and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations is further limited by our subsidiaries' ability to make such dividends, distributions or intercompany loans. Our subsidiaries' ability to pay any dividends or distributions to us are limited by their obligations to satisfy their own obligations to their creditors and preferred stockholders before making any dividends or distributions to us. In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. 18 We share control of some of our properties with other investors and may have conflicts of interest with those investors While we generally make all operating decisions for the Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make other decisions with the other investors who have interests in the relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties, as well as to bankruptcy decisions related to the Unconsolidated Properties and related joint ventures. Also, the assets of Unconsolidated Properties may be used as collateral to secure loans of our joint venture partners, and the indemnity we may be entitled to from our joint venture partners could be worth less than the value of those assets. We might not have the same interests as the other investors in relation to these transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide financial or other inducements to the other investors to obtain a favorable resolution. In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties. As such, we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling interests in a property or properties at a time that is not desirable. Bankruptcy of our joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the jointly owned retail properties The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our jointly owned shopping malls could materially and adversely affect the relevant property or properties. Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we would be precluded from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without prior court approval which would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than would otherwise be required. We are impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our partners We own certain properties through partnerships which have arrangements in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding or selling these properties. Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such, they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated business taxable income generated from these jointly owned properties. As the manager of these joint ventures, we have obligations to avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions related to the financing of and revenue generation from these properties. 19 We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT We have agreed to elect to be treated as a REIT in connection with the filing of our tax return for 2010, subject to our ability to meet the requirements of a REIT at the time of election. Such election, with respect to the Successor, would be retroactive to July 1, 2010. It is possible that we may not meet the conditions for qualification as a REIT at the time of such election. In addition, once an entity is qualified as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") generally requires that such entity pay tax on or distribute 100% of its capital gains and distribute its ordinary taxable income to shareholders. To avoid current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, we expect to distribute 100% of our capital gains and ordinary income to shareholders annually. For 2010 we made 90% of this distribution in common stock and 10% in cash. In 2011, we expect to implement a recently adopted dividend reinvestment plan in which all stockholders would be entitled to participate. The Plan Sponsors and the Blackstone Investors have agreed (subject to tax, applicable regulatory and other legal requirements), that for 2011 and 2012 they would elect to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan and have dividends paid on the shares that they hold largely reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, we would be able to pay a larger proportion of cash dividends to other stockholders who elect to receive cash in 2011 and 2012. However, there can be no assurances that we will not determine to instead pay dividends in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and federal income tax. If any of our REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure could result in our loss of REIT status. If we lose our REIT status, corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. An ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations. The ownership limit. Generally, for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code for a taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer "individuals" at any time during the last half of such taxable year. Our charter provides that no one individual may own more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of capital stock unless our board of directors provides a waiver from the ownership restrictions, which the Investment Agreements contemplate subject to the applicable Plan Sponsor making certain representations and covenants. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described above to include some types of entities. However, our certificate of incorporation also permits us to exempt a person from the ownership limit described therein upon the satisfaction of certain conditions which are described in our certificate of incorporation. Selected provisions of our charter documents. Our charter authorizes the board of directors: •to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock; •to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; and •to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue. 20 Selected provisions of our bylaws. Our amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations: •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; •restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 15% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and •rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. Selected provisions of Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203 prevents an "interested stockholder" (as defined below), from engaging in a "business combination" (as defined in the statute) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs: •before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination; •upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; and •following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. The statute defines "interested stockholder" as any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination. Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions. We are currently involved in an SEC inquiry In July 2010, we received notice that, pursuant to an April 21, 2010 order, the SEC is conducting a formal, non-public investigation into possible violations of proscriptions on insider trading under the federal securities laws by certain current and former officers and directors. The formal investigation is the continuation of an informal inquiry which the SEC initiated in October 2008. We intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC with respect to the investigation. While we cannot predict the outcome of this investigation with certainty, based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 21 Bankruptcy Risks We may be subject to litigation as a result of the Plan We cannot assure you that our stakeholders will not contest the Plan through litigation following our emergence from bankruptcy. Also, as is typical in bankruptcy cases like ours, the final resolution of all claims against the TopCo Debtors has extended beyond the Effective Date and the ultimate resolution of such claims may be different from the treatment we have assumed for purposes of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements or the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report. An unfavorable resolution of any such claim could have a material adverse effect on us. Because our financial statements reflect adjustments related to the acquisition method of accounting upon our emergence from bankruptcy, information reflecting our results of operations and financial condition will not be comparable to prior periods Acquisition accounting was triggered as a result of the structure of the Plan Sponsors' investments, as set forth in the Plan. Following our emergence from bankruptcy, it will be difficult to compare certain information reflecting our results of operations and financial condition to those for historical periods prior to emergence from bankruptcy. Accordingly, we have presented certain pro forma income statement information to reflect the disposition of the HHC assets, the consummation of the Plan (including the Investment Agreements) and the application of the acquisition method of accounting (Note 3), as reflected in Note 16. The actual results of operations for periods subsequent to the Effective Date may vary from what is suggested by the estimated pro forma amounts, and may be material. Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court The Disclosure Statement, which the TopCo Debtors were required to prepare in connection with the Plan, contained projected financial information and estimates of value that demonstrated the feasibility of the Plan and the TopCo Debtors' ability to continue operations upon their emergence from proceedings under the Bankruptcy Code. The information in the Disclosure Statement was prepared for the limited purpose of furnishing recipients of such Disclosure Statement with adequate information to make an informed judgment regarding acceptance of the Plan and was not prepared for the purpose of providing the basis for an investment decision relating to any of our securities. The projections and estimates of value, as well as the Disclosure Statement, are expressly excluded from this Annual Report and should not be relied upon in any way or manner and should not be regarded for the purpose of this report as representations or warranties by us or any other person, as to the accuracy of such information or that any such projections or valuations will be realized. Those projections and estimates of value have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis, and they were not audited or reviewed by independent accountants. They reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance and with respect to prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were, and remain, beyond our control. Projections and estimates of value are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks, and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may be wrong in any material respect. Actual results may vary and may continue to vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections and/or valuation estimates. As a result, you should not rely on those projections and/or valuation estimates. 22 We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 Cases will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Our bankruptcy may have affected our relationship with key employees, tenants, consumers, suppliers and communities, and our future success depends on our ability to maintain these relationships Although we emerged from bankruptcy upon consummation of the Plan, we cannot assure you that our having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations going forward, including our ability to negotiate favorable terms from and maintain relationships with tenants, consumers, suppliers and communities. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and maintain such relationships could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to realize our strategy. There is a risk of investor influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other shareholders After the Clawback, the Plan Sponsors, Blackstone and Texas Teachers still own, in the aggregate, a majority of the shares of our common stock (excluding shares issuable upon the exercise of Permanent Warrants) and after giving effect to the exercise of the Permanent Warrants, representing 123,144,000 shares, or the election to receive future dividends in the form of common stock, would further increase their ownership. Although the Plan Sponsors have entered into standstill agreements to limit their influence, the concentration of ownership of our outstanding equity in the Plan Sponsors may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Plan Sponsors, or more likely with the support of the Plan Sponsors. The interests of any of the Plan Sponsors, any other substantial stockholder or any of their respective affiliates could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of the holders of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Plan Sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable for us and the other stockholders. A Plan Sponsor, substantial stockholder or affiliate thereof may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We cannot assure you that the standstill agreements can fully protect against these risks. As long as the Plan Sponsors and any other substantial stockholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, subject to the terms of the standstill agreements and were they to act in a coordinated manner, they would be able to exert significant influence over us, including: •the composition of our board of directors, including the right of Brookfield Investor and Pershing Square to designate directors under the Investment Agreements, and, through it, any determination with respect to our business; •direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; •the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees; •any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing decisions and our capital raising activities; •the payment of dividends; •conduct in regulatory and legal proceedings; and •amendments to our certificate of incorporation. 23 Our new directors and officers may change our current long-range plan On the Effective Date, the composition of our board of directors changed significantly. Our executive officers also changed significantly following the Effective Date. The new board of directors and management team may make material changes to our business, operations and long-range plans described in this annual report. It is impossible to predict what these changes will be and the impact they will have on our future results of operations and the price of our common stock. Some of our directors are involved in other businesses including, without limitation, real estate activities and public and/or private investments and, therefore, may have competing or conflicting interests with us and our board of directors has adopted resolutions renouncing any interest or expectation in any such business opportunities. In addition, our relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield's obligation to present opportunities to us Certain of our directors have and may in the future have interests in other real estate business activities, and may have control or influence over these activities or may serve as investment advisors, directors or officers. These interests and activities, and any duties to third parties arising from such interests and activities, could divert the attention of such directors from our operations. Additionally, certain of our directors are engaged in investment and other activities in which they may learn of real estate and other related opportunities in their non-director capacities. Our board of directors has adopted resolutions applicable to our directors that expressly provide, as permitted by Section 122(17) of the DGCL, that our non-employee directors are not obligated to limit their interests or activities in their non-director capacities or to notify us of any opportunities that may arise in connection therewith, even if the opportunities are complementary to or in competition with our businesses. Accordingly, we have, and investors in our common stock should have, no expectation that we will be able to learn of or participate in such opportunities. Additionally, the relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield Asset Management Inc.'s obligations to present opportunities to us. Liquidity Risks Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility Excluding the Special Consideration Properties, as of December 31, 2010, we have approximately $20.72 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including approximately $2.67 billion of our share of unconsolidated debt. Our indebtedness may have important consequences to us and the value of our common stock, including: •limiting our ability to borrow significant additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes; •limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to service debt; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given the portion of our indebtedness which bears interest at variable rates; •limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and •giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on our assets. 24 Our debt contains restrictions and covenants which may limit our ability to enter into or obtain funding for certain transactions or operate our business The terms of certain of our debt will require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests, including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage and net worth, or to satisfy similar tests as a precondition to incurring additional debt. On the Effective Date, we entered into a new $300.0 million (which we recently amended to provide for loans up to approximately $720 million) revolving credit facility containing similar covenants and restrictions. In addition, certain of our indebtedness that was reinstated in connection with the Plan contains restrictions. The covenants and other restrictions under our debt agreements affect, among other things, our ability to: •incur indebtedness; •create liens on assets; •sell assets; •manage our cash flows; •transfer assets to other subsidiaries; •make capital expenditures; •engage in mergers and acquisitions; and •make distributions to equity holders, including holders of our common stock. Further, our ability to incur debt under the indentures governing the Rouse notes which are expected to remain outstanding through November 2015 (the latest maturity of the three series of reinstated Rouse notes or the replacement Rouse notes), is determined by the calculation of several covenant tests, including ratios of secured debt to gross assets and total debt to gross assets. We expect that Rouse and its subsidiaries may need to refinance project-level debt prior to 2015, and our ability to refinance such debt may be limited by these ratios which are calculated on an incurrence basis, and any potential non-compliance with the covenants may result in Rouse seeking other sources of capital, including investments from us, or may result in a default on the reinstated Rouse notes. In addition, our refinanced debt contains certain terms which include restrictive operational and financial covenants, restrictions on the distribution of cash flows from properties serving as collateral for the debt and, in certain instances, higher interest rates. These fees and cash flow restrictions may affect our ability to fund our on-going operations from our operating cash flows and we may be limited in our operating and financial flexibility and, thus, may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. We may not be able to refinance, extend or repay our portion of indebtedness of our Unconsolidated Properties As of December 31, 2010, our share of indebtedness secured by our Unconsolidated Properties was approximately $2.67 billion. We cannot assure you that our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates will be able to support, extend, refinance or repay their debt on acceptable terms or otherwise. If we or our joint venture partners cannot service this debt, the joint venture may have to deed property back to the applicable lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance or restructure such debt on acceptable terms or otherwise, or that joint venture operations or contributions by us and/or our partners will be sufficient to repay such loans. The ability to refinance this debt is negatively affected by the current condition of the credit markets, which have significantly reduced the capacity levels of commercial lending. The ability to successfully refinance or extend this debt may also be negatively affected by our previous bankruptcy proceedings and the restructuring of the TopCo Debtors' debt, as 25 well as the real or perceived decline in the value of our Unconsolidated Properties based on general and retail economic conditions. We may not be able to raise capital through the sale of properties, including the strategic sale of non-core assets at prices we believe are appropriate We desire to opportunistically sell non-core assets, such as stand-alone office buildings, community shopping centers and certain regional malls. Our ability to sell our properties to raise capital may be limited. The retail economic climate negatively affects the value of our properties and therefore reduces our ability to sell these properties on acceptable terms. Our ability to sell our properties could be affected by the availability of credit, which could increase the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing, as well as by the illiquid nature of real estate. For example, as part of our strategy to further delever our balance sheet in order to build liquidity and optimize our portfolio, we plan to reposition certain of our underperforming properties. If we cannot reposition these properties on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to delever and realize our strategy of building liquidity and optimizing our portfolio. See "—Business Risks" for a further discussion of the effects of the retail economic climate on our properties, as well as the illiquid nature of our investments in our properties. Old GGP's stock price historically has been, and the trading prices of shares of our common stock are likely to be, volatile The price of our common stock on the NYSE constantly changes and has been subject to significant price fluctuations and such volatility may continue into 2011. Factors impacting stock price may include: •Our obligations that remain after our emergence from bankruptcy; •actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; •changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; •the success of our real estate redevelopment and expansion strategy; •our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our debt agreements and the impact of restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; •our access to financing; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •speculation in the press or investment community; and •the realization of any of the other risk factors included in this Annual Report. In addition, the market in general has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 26 Risks related to the Distribution of HHC If the distribution of HHC does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, then we may be required to pay substantial U.S. Federal Income Taxes We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") with respect to the tax effect of the transactions transferring assets from Old GGP and its subsidiaries to HHC and to the effect that the distribution to Old GGP's shareholders of HHC would qualify as tax-free to Old GGP and its subsidiaries for U.S. federal income tax purposes (the "IRS Ruling"). A private letter ruling from the IRS is generally binding on the IRS. Such IRS Ruling did not rule that the distribution satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and the parties will rely solely on the advice of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied. The IRS Ruling is based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Old GGP. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS Ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. Old GGP also entered into a tax matters agreement with HHC, pursuant to which, among other things, Old GGP may be held liable for costs incurred as a result of the unavailability of the IRS Ruling if Old GGP caused such invalidity. If HHC caused such invalidity, HHC could be liable for such costs. If the cause for the invalidity cannot be determined or was not caused by a single party, then Old GGP and HHC will share such liability. We have assumed such Old GGP obligations as of the Effective Date. We have indemnified HHC for certain tax liabilities Pursuant to the Investment Agreements, we have indemnified HHC from and against 93.75% of any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and reasonable expenses to which HHC and its subsidiaries become subject, in each case solely to the extent directly attributable to certain taxes related to sales in Old GGP's Master Planned Communities segment prior to March 31, 2010, in an amount up to $303,750,000 (the "Indemnity Cap") as reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010. Under certain circumstances, the Successor has also agreed to be responsible for interest or penalties attributable to such MPC Taxes in excess of $303,750,000. In addition, if HHC is obligated to pay MPC Taxes (as defined in the Investment Agreements) within 36 months after the Effective Date and GGP is not then obligated to indemnify HHC as a consequence of the Indemnity Cap, then solely with respect to such payments, we shall make such payments and enter into a promissory note with HHC. We may not obtain benefits from or be adversely affected by the distribution of HHC, and the distribution of HHC may occupy a substantial amount of management's time GGP may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the distribution of HHC, or may not achieve them in a timely fashion. Following the distribution, our operational and financial profile changed as a result of the separation of HHC's assets from our other businesses. As a result, our diversification of revenue sources has diminished. Some of the assets distributed to HHC may also compete directly with our properties. In addition, GGP entered into a transition services agreement with HHC, pursuant to which members of GGP's management team will assist with transition services for HHC. In addition to possible disputes, these obligations may occupy a substantial amount of our management's time. It is also possible that the separation of GGP and HHC may result in disputes regarding the terms of such separation and/ or future performance pursuant to agreements entered into in order to effectuate the separation. 27 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION We may make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and in other reports which we file with the SEC. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Forward-looking statements include: •Descriptions of plans or objectives of our management for, debt repayment or restructuring, modification, extension; strategic alternatives, including capital raises and asset sales; and future operations •Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, Funds From Operations ("FFO"), NOI, capital expenditures, income tax and other contingent liabilities, dividends, leverage, capital structure or other financial items •Forecasts of our future economic performance •Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing In this Annual Report, for example, we make forward-looking statements discussing our expectations about: •Our ability to achieve cost savings, and renew and enter into leases on favorable terms •Our ability to reduce our debt or other liquidity goals within our expected time frame or at all •Recovery of the global economy, and our expectation that improvements in economic factors will drive improvements in our business •Our properties being located in favorable market areas with potential for future growth •Our ability to attract quality tenants and improve our occupancy cost, recovery revenue and occupancy rate •The redevelopment of our properties and expectations about current projects underway at our properties Forward-looking statements discuss matters that are not historical facts. Because they discuss future events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be unduly relied upon. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we might not update them to reflect changes that occur after the date they are made. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: •economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, which may have an adverse affect on our revenues and available cash, including our ability to lease and collect rent, bankruptcy or store closures of tenants, department store productivity, co-tenancy provisions and ability to attract new tenants; •our inability to buy and sell real estate quickly; •the fact that we invest primarily in regional malls and other properties, which are subject to a number of significant risks which are beyond our control; •risks associated with the redevelopment and expansion of properties; 28 •New GGP's lack of an operating history of its own and dependence on its subsidiaries for cash; •New GGP's inability to qualify as a REIT or maintain its status of a REIT; •an attempt to acquire us may be hindered by an ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law; •the possibility of significant variations from the projections filed in Bankruptcy Court and our actual financial results; •the effect of the bankruptcy on our operations; •the possibility of the Plan Sponsors and other significant stockholders having substantial control of our company, whose interests may be adverse to ours or yours; •our new directors and officers may change our current long-range plans; •our new directors may be involved or have interests in other businesses, including, without limitation, real estate activities and investments; •our indebtedness; and •the other risks described in "Item 1A Risk Factors" and other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports that we file with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 