Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the significant risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this combined Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related combined notes, before making an investment decision in any of the Companies. The risks set forth below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we 24 Table of Contents currently deem to be immaterial may materially affect our business, our structure, the Operating Company's financial condition, the Operating Company's investments and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of NMFC's common stock could decline. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the Operating Company's investment objective and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS IN THE CURRENT ENVIRONMENT The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the economic crisis in Europe could negatively impact the Operating Company's liquidity, financial condition and earnings, thus affecting the financial condition and earnings of NMFC and AIV Holdings. The U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from "AAA" to "AA+" in August 2011. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the impact of the current crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. There can be no assurance that governmental or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. These developments, and the government's credit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with the Operating Company's debt portfolio and its ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, the decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on NMFC's stock price. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Companies' business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE We have a limited operating history. NMFC and AIV Holdings are newly-formed entities while the Operating Company commenced operations in October 2008, owning all of the operations, including all of the assets and liabilities, of the Predecessor Entities. NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies with no direct operations of their own, and their only business and sole asset are their ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company. As a result, we are subject to many of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we may not achieve the Operating Company's investment objective and that, as a result, the value of NMFC's common stock and the Operating Company's units could decline substantially. The Operating Company may suffer credit losses. Investments in small and middle market businesses are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk of credit loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, such as the U.S. and many other economies have recently been experiencing. The Operating Company does not expect to replicate the Predecessor Entities' historical performance or the historical performance of other entities managed or supported by the New Mountain Capital. The Operating Company does not expect to replicate the Predecessor Entities' historical performance or the historical performance of New Mountain Capital's investments. The Operating Company's investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Predecessor Entities. Although the Predecessor Entities commenced operations during otherwise unfavorable 25 Table of Contents economic conditions, this was a favorable environment in which the Operating Company could conduct its business in light of its investment objectives and strategy. In addition, the Operating Company's investment strategies may differ from those of New Mountain Capital or its affiliates. The Companies, as BDCs, and NMFC and AIV Holdings, as RICs, are subject to certain regulatory restrictions that do not apply to New Mountain Capital or its affiliates. The Operating Company is generally not permitted to invest in any portfolio company in which New Mountain Capital or any of its affiliates currently have an investment or to make any co-investments with New Mountain Capital or its affiliates, except to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. This may adversely affect the pace at which the Operating Company makes investments. Moreover, the Operating Company may operate with a different leverage profile than the Predecessor Entities. Furthermore, none of the prior results from the Predecessor Entities were from public reporting companies, and all or a portion of these results were achieved in particularly favorable market conditions for the Operating Company's investment strategy which may never be repeated. Finally, we can offer no assurance that the Operating Company's investment team will be able to continue to implement its investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past. There is uncertainty as to the value of the Operating Company's portfolio investments because most of its investments are, and may continue to be in private companies and recorded at fair value. In addition, because NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies, the fair values of the Operating Company's investments are determined by the Operating Company's board of directors in accordance with the Operating Company's valuation policy. Some of the Operating Company's investments are and may be in the form of securities or loans that are not publicly traded. The fair value of these investments may not be readily determinable. Under the 1940 Act, the Operating Company is required to carry its portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of its securities. The Operating Company values its investments for which it does not have readily available market quotations quarterly, or more frequently as circumstances require, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors in accordance with its valuation policy, which is at all times consistent with GAAP. See Item 8.혰Financial Statements and Supplementary Data혰Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies or Note 4, Fair Value for additional information on around valuations. The Operating Company's board of directors utilizes the services of one or more independent third-party valuation firms to aid it in determining the fair value with respect to its material unquoted assets in accordance with its valuation policy. The inputs into the determination of fair value of these investments may require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data is available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. The types of factors that the board of directors takes into account in determining the fair value of its investments generally include, as appropriate: available market data, including relevant and applicable market trading and transaction comparables, applicable market yields and multiples, security covenants, call protection provisions, information rights, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments, its earnings and discounted cash flows and the markets in which it does business, comparisons of financial ratios of peer companies that are public, comparable merger and acquisition transactions and the principal market and enterprise values. Since these valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, the 26 Table of Contents Operating Company's determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, the Operating Company's fair value determinations may cause its net asset value and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset value, on any given date, to materially understate or overstate the value that the Operating Company may ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more of our investments. In addition, investors purchasing NMFC's common stock based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the realizable value of our investments might warrant. Since NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies and their only business and sole asset are their ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset values are based on the Operating Company's valuation and their percentage interest in the Operating Company. Although the Operating Company's current board of directors is comprised of the same individuals as NMFC's and AIV Holdings' board of directors, there can be no assurances that the Operating Company's board composition will remain the same as NMFC and AIV Holdings. As a result, the value of your investment in NMFC or AIV Holdings could be similarly understated or overstated based on the Operating Company's fair value determinations. However, in the event that NMFC and/or AIV Holdings' board of directors believes that a different fair value for the Operating Company's investments is appropriate, NMFC and/or AIV Holdings' board of directors may discuss the differences in the valuations with the Operating Company's board of directors for the purposes of resolving the differences in valuation. The valuation procedures of NMFC and AIV Holdings are substantially similar to those utilized by the Operating Company described above. The Operating Company may adjust quarterly the valuation of its portfolio to reflect its board of directors' determination of the fair value of each investment in its portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in the Operating Company's statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The Operating Company's ability to achieve its investment objective depends on key investment personnel of the Investment Adviser. If the Investment Adviser were to lose any of its key investment personnel, the Operating Company's ability to achieve its investment objective could be significantly harmed. The Operating Company depends on the investment judgment, skill and relationships of the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser, particularly Steven B. Klinsky and Robert Hamwee, as well as other key personnel to identify, evaluate, negotiate, structure, execute, monitor and service its investments. The Investment Adviser, as an affiliate of New Mountain Capital, is supported by New Mountain Capital's team, which as of December 31, 2012 consisted of approximately 100 staff members of New Mountain Capital and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to the Operating Company under the Investment Management Agreement. The Investment Adviser may also depend upon New Mountain Capital to obtain access to investment opportunities originated by the professionals of New Mountain Capital and its affiliates. The Operating Company's future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the key investment personnel of the Investment Adviser. The departure of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Operating Company's ability to achieve its investment objective. The Investment Committee, which provides oversight over the Operating Company's investment activities, is provided by the Investment Adviser. The Investment Committee currently consists of five members. The loss of any member of the Investment Committee or of other senior professionals of the Investment Adviser and its affiliates without suitable replacement could limit the Operating Company's ability to achieve its investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. To achieve the Operating Company's investment objective, the Investment Adviser may hire, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals to participate in its investment selection and monitoring process. If the 27 Table of Contents Investment Adviser is unable to find investment professionals or do so in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Investment Adviser has limited experience managing a BDC or a RIC, which could adversely affect our business. Other than the Companies, the Investment Adviser has not previously managed a BDC or a RIC. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs and RICs that do not apply to the other investment vehicles previously managed by the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser. For example, under the 1940 Act, BDCs are required to invest at least 70.0% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or thinly traded companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC under subchapter M of the Code requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. NMFC and AIV Holdings have no assets other than their ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company and have no material long-term liabilities. As a result, NMFC and AIV Holdings look to the Operating Company's assets and income for purposes of satisfying the requirements under the 1940 Act applicable to BDCs and the requirements under the Code applicable to RICs. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent NMFC, AIV Holdings and the Operating Company from qualifying as BDCs or NMFC and AIV Holdings from qualifying as RICs and could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which would have a material adverse effect on our performance. The Investment Adviser's lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under the constraints applicable to BDCs and RICs may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve the Operating Company's investment objective. If the Operating Company fails to maintain its status as a BDC or operate in a manner consistent with NMFC's and AIV Holdings' status as RICs, its operating flexibility could be significantly reduced and NMFC and AIV Holdings may be unable to maintain their status as BDCs or RICs. The Operating Company operates in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and may not be able to compete effectively. The Operating Company competes for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity and hedge funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Many of its competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than it does. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to the Operating Company. In addition, some of the Operating Company's competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than the Operating Company has. Furthermore, many of the Operating Company's competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on the Companies as BDCs or the source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements that NMFC and AIV Holdings must satisfy to obtain and maintain their RIC status. These characteristics could allow the Operating Company's competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than the Operating Company is able to do. There are a number of new BDCs that have recently completed their initial public offerings or that have filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could create increased competition for investment opportunities. The Operating Company may lose investment opportunities if it does not match its competitors' pricing, terms and structure. With respect to the investments the Operating Company makes, it does not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates it may offer, and we believe that some of the Operating Company's competitors may make loans with interest rates that may be lower than the rates 28 Table of Contents it offers. In the secondary market for acquiring existing loans, we expect the Operating Company to compete generally on the basis of pricing terms. If the Operating Company matches its competitors' pricing, terms and structure, it may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. If the Operating Company is forced to match its competitors' pricing, terms and structure, it may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on its investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Part of the Operating Company's competitive advantage stems from the fact that we believe the market for middle-market lending is underserved by traditional bank lenders and other financial sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of the Operating Company's competitors in this target market could force it to accept less attractive investment terms. The Operating Company may also compete for investment opportunities with accounts managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates. Although the Investment Adviser allocates opportunities in accordance with its policies and procedures, allocations to such other accounts reduces the amount and frequency of opportunities available to the Operating Company and may not be in the best interests of the Operating Company and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' stockholders. Moreover, the performance of investment opportunities is not known at the time of allocation. If the Operating Company is not able to compete effectively, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, thus affecting the business, financial condition and results of operations of NMFC and AIV Holdings. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Operating Company will be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities that it identifies or that it will be able to fully invest its available capital. Our business, results of operations and financial condition depends on the Operating Company's ability to manage future growth effectively. The Operating Company's ability to achieve its investment objective and to grow depends on the Investment Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet the Operating Company's investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of the Investment Adviser's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to the Operating Company and its ability to access financing on acceptable terms. The Investment Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Investment Management Agreement and may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to the Operating Company's portfolio companies. These demands on the time of the Investment Adviser and its investment professionals may distract them or slow the Operating Company's rate of investment. In order to grow, the Operating Company and the Investment Adviser may need to retain, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals. However, these investment professionals may not be able to contribute effectively to the work of the Investment Adviser. If the Operating Company is unable to manage its future growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The incentive fee may induce the Investment Adviser to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to pursue investments that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser is calculated based on a percentage of the Operating Company's return on investment capital. This may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on the Operating Company's investments. In addition, because the base management fee is payable based upon the Operating Company's gross assets, which includes any borrowings for investment purposes, but excludes cash and cash equivalents for investment purposes, the Investment Adviser may be further encouraged to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common membership units of the Operating Company and, consequently, the value of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stock. 29 Table of Contents The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser also may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to invest in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide the cash necessary for the Operating Company to make distributions to NMFC and AIV Holdings that enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to pay current distributions to their stockholders. Under these investments, the Operating Company would accrue the interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the investment's term, if at all. The Operating Company's net investment income used to calculate the income portion of the incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of the incentive fee would be based on income that the Operating Company has not yet received in cash and may never receive in cash if the portfolio company is unable to satisfy such interest payment obligations. In addition, the "catch-up" portion of the incentive fee may encourage the Investment Adviser to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and dividend amounts. The Operating Company may be obligated to pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation even if the Operating Company incurs a loss. The Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of the Operating Company's Pre-Incentive Fee Adjusted Net Investment Income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. Accordingly, since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of the Operating Company's net asset value, decreases in the Operating Company's net asset value makes it easier to achieve the performance threshold. The Operating Company's Pre-Incentive Fee Adjusted Net Investment Income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that it may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on the Operating Company's statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, the Operating Company may be required to pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of its portfolio or the Operating Company incurs a net loss for that quarter. The Operating Company borrows money, which could magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us and increase the risk of investing in us. The Operating Company borrows money as part of its business plan. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital and may, consequently, increase the risk of investing in us. We expect the Operating Company to continue to use leverage to finance its investments, through senior securities issued by banks and other lenders. The Operating Company is restricted from incurring additional indebtedness under the Holdings Credit Facility and the SLF Credit Facility (the "Credit Facilities"), without lender consent. See Item 8.혰Financial Statements and Supplementary Data혰Note 7, Borrowing Facilities for a detailed discussion on the Credit Facilities. Lenders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on the Operating Company's assets that are superior to NMFC's and AIV Holdings' claim as members of the Operating Company, and, consequently, superior to claims of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stockholders. If the value of the Operating Company's assets decreases, leveraging would cause its net asset value and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset value, to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had it not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in the Operating Company's income would cause its net income and consequently NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net income to decline more sharply than they would have had it not borrowed. Such a decline could adversely affect the Operating Company's ability to make distributions to its members and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' ability to make common stock dividend payments. In addition, because the Operating Company's investments may be illiquid, the Operating Company may be unable to dispose of them or to do so at a favorable price in the event it needs to do so if it is unable to refinance any indebtedness upon maturity and, as a result, we may suffer losses. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. 30 Table of Contents The Operating Company's ability to service any debt that it incurs depends largely on its financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the Investment Adviser's management fee is payable to the Investment Adviser based on gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, the Investment Adviser may have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with NMFC's and AIV Holdings' interests and the interests of their common stockholders. In addition, holders of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stock will, indirectly, bear the burden of any increase in the Operating Company's expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to the Investment Adviser. At December 31, 2012, the Operating Company had $206.9 million and $214.3 million of indebtedness outstanding under the Holdings Credit Facility and the SLF Credit Facility, respectively. The Holdings Credit Facility had an effective annual interest rate of 3.1% for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the SLF Credit Facility had an effective interest rate of 2.3% for the year ended December 31, 2012. NMFC and the Operating Company may need to raise additional capital to grow the Operating Company. All of the proceeds from the IPO, the Concurrent Private Placement and subsequent offerings by NMFC were contributed to the Operating Company in exchange for NMFC's and AIV Holdings' acquisition of common membership units of the Operating Company. The Operating Company may need additional capital to fund new investments and grow its portfolio of investments once the Operating Company has fully invested these proceeds. NMFC may access the capital markets periodically to issue equity securities, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Operating Company. In addition, the Operating Company may also issue debt securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. AIV Holdings does not intend to raise any additional equity or debt capital. However, the Operating Company is restricted from incurring additional indebtedness under the Credit Facilities, without lender consent. NMFC is not permitted to own any other securities other than its common membership units of the Operating Company. As a result, any proceeds from offerings by NMFC of equity securities would be contributed to the Operating Company. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase NMFC and the Operating Company's funding costs, and as a result AIV Holdings' funding costs, and limit their access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Operating Company. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit the Operating Company's ability to grow. In addition, each of NMFC and AIV Holdings are required to distribute at least 90.0% of their net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to their stockholders to obtain and maintain their RIC status. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. If NMFC or the Operating Company is unable to access the capital markets or if the Operating Company is unable to borrow from financial institutions, the Operating Company may be unable to grow its business and execute its business strategy fully and our earnings, if any, could decrease which could have an adverse effect on the value of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' securities. If the Operating Company is unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions in the Credit Facilities, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Credit Facilities include covenants that, subject to exceptions, among other things, restrict the Operating Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay distributions, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. The Credit Facilities also include change of control provisions that accelerate the indebtedness under the facility in the event of certain change of control events. Complying with these restrictions may prevent the Operating Company from taking actions that we believe would help it to grow its business or are otherwise consistent with its investment objective. These restrictions could also limit the Operating Company's 31 Table of Contents ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. In addition, the restrictions contained in the Credit Facilities could limit the Operating Company's ability to make distributions to its members in certain circumstances which could result in NMFC and AIV Holdings failing to qualify as RICs and thus becoming subject to corporate-level federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). The breach of any of the covenants or restrictions unless cured within the applicable grace period, would result in a default under the respective Credit Facilities that would permit the lender to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable. In such an event, the Operating Company may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result, any default could have serious consequences to our financial condition. An event of default or an acceleration under the Credit Facilities could also cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt instrument or contractual obligation, which would adversely impact the Operating Company's liquidity. An event of default under the Holdings Credit Facility will trigger an event of default under the SLF Credit Facility. The Operating Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to the Credit Facilities if for any reason it is unable to comply with it, and the Operating Company may not be able to refinance the Credit Facilities on terms acceptable to it, or at all. The Operating Company may enter into reverse repurchase agreements, which are another form of leverage. Subject to limitations in the Credit Facilities, the Operating Company may enter into reverse repurchase agreements as part of its management of its investment portfolio. Under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Operating Company will effectively pledge its assets as collateral to secure a short-term loan. Generally, the other party to the agreement makes the loan in an amount equal to a percentage of the fair value of the pledged collateral. At the maturity of the reverse repurchase agreement, the payor will be required to repay the loan and correspondingly receive back its collateral. While used as collateral, the assets continue to pay principal and interest which are for the benefit of the Operating Company. The Operating Company's use of reverse repurchase agreements, if any, involves many of the same risks involved in its use of leverage, as the proceeds from reverse repurchase agreements generally will be invested in additional securities. There is a risk that the market value of the securities acquired with the proceeds of a reverse repurchase agreement may decline below the price of the securities that it has sold but remains obligated to repurchase under the reverse repurchase agreement. In addition, there is a risk that the market value of the securities effectively pledged by the Operating Company may decline. If a buyer of securities under a reverse repurchase agreement were to file for bankruptcy or experience insolvency, the Operating Company may be adversely affected. Also, in entering into reverse repurchase agreements, the Operating Company would bear the risk of loss to the extent that the proceeds of such agreements at settlement are more than the fair value of the underlying securities being pledged. In addition, due to the interest costs associated with reverse repurchase agreements transactions, the Operating Company's net asset value would decline, and, in some cases, we may be worse off than if such instruments had not been used. If the Operating Company is unable to obtain additional debt financing, or if its borrowing capacity is materially reduced, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Operating Company may want to obtain additional debt financing, or need to do so upon maturity of its Credit Facilities, in order to obtain funds which may be made available for investments. The Operating Company is restricted from incurring additional indebtedness under the Credit Facilities without lender consent. The revolving period under the Holdings Credit Facility ends on October 27, 2014, and the Holdings Credit Facility matures on October 27, 2016. The revolving period under the SLF Credit Facility ends on October 27, 2014, and the SLF Credit Facility matures on October 27, 2016. If the Operating Company is unable to increase, renew or replace any such facility and enter into a new debt financing facility or other debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, its liquidity may 32 Table of Contents be reduced significantly. In addition, if the Operating Company is unable to repay amounts outstanding under any such facilities and is declared in default or is unable to renew or refinance these facilities, it may not be able to make new investments or operate our business in the normal course. These situations may arise due to circumstances that the Operating Company may be unable to control, such as lack of access to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or the Operating Company, and could materially damage the Operating Company's business operations and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' business, results of operations and financial condition. An extended continuation of the disruption in the capital markets and the credit markets could adversely affect our business. As BDCs, NMFC and the Operating Company must maintain its ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. If NMFC or the Operating Company is unable to access the capital markets or credit markets, the Operating Company may be forced to curtail its business operations and may be unable to pursue new investment opportunities. The capital markets and the credit markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent periods, and, as a result, there has been and will likely continue to be uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Disruptions in the capital markets increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. In addition, a prolonged period of market illiquidity may cause the Operating Company to reduce the volume of loans it originates and/or funds and adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase the Operating Company's funding costs, limit its access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Operating Company. These events could limit the Operating Company's investment originations, limit its ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. Ongoing disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict the Operating Company's business operations and, consequently, could adversely impact NMFC's and AIV Holdings' business, results of operations and financial condition. If the fair value of the Operating Company's assets declines substantially, it may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios imposed upon it by the 1940 Act and contained in its Credit Facilities. Any such failure would affect the Operating Company's ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, draw on its Credit Facilities and pay distributions, which could materially impair its business operations. The Operating Company's liquidity could be impaired further by NMFC, AIV Holdings or the Operating Company's inability to access the capital or credit markets. For example, we cannot be certain that the Operating Company will be able to renew its credit facilities as they mature or to consummate new borrowing facilities to provide capital for normal operations, including new originations. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. In addition, adverse economic conditions due to these disruptive conditions could materially impact the Operating Company's ability to comply with the financial and other covenants in any existing or future credit facilities. If the Operating Company is unable to comply with these covenants, its business could be materially adversely affected, which could, as a result, materially adversely affect NMFC's and AIV Holdings' business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect the Operating Company's cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent the Operating Company borrows money to make investments, the Operating Company's net investment income depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which it borrows funds and the rate at which it invests those funds. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates may have a material adverse effect on the Operating Company's net investment income in the event it uses debt to finance its investments. In periods of rising interest rates, the Operating 33 Table of Contents Company's cost of funds would increase, which could reduce its net investment income. The Operating Company may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. The incentive fee the Operating Company pays to the Investment Adviser with respect to capital gains may be effectively greater than 20.0%. As a result of the operation of the cumulative method of calculating the capital gains portion of the incentive fee the Operating Company pays to the Investment Adviser, the cumulative aggregate capital gains fee received by the Investment Adviser could be effectively greater than 20.0%, depending on the timing and extent of subsequent net realized capital losses or net unrealized depreciation. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, this payment calculation would affect your investment in NMFC or AIV Holdings' common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS Because the Operating Company intends to make distributions to its members that will be sufficient to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to obtain and maintain their status as RICs, and because NMFC and AIV Holdings intend to distribute substantially all of their income to their stockholders to obtain and maintain their status as RICs, the Operating Company will continue to need additional capital to finance its growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, the Operating Company's ability to grow may be impaired. In order for NMFC and AIV Holdings to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs and to avoid payment of excise taxes, the Operating Company intends to make distributions to its members that will be sufficient to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to obtain and maintain their status as RICs, and NMFC and AIV Holdings intend to distribute to their stockholders substantially all of their annual taxable income, except that NMFC may retain certain net capital gains for reinvestment in common membership units of the Operating Company, and treat such amounts as deemed distributions to its stockholders. If NMFC elects to treat any amounts as deemed distributions, NMFC must pay income taxes at the corporate rate on such deemed distributions on behalf of its stockholders. As a result of these requirements, NMFC and the Operating Company may need to raise capital from other sources to grow its business. As a BDC, the Operating Company is required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, to total senior securities, which includes all of the Operating Company's borrowings and any outstanding preferred membership units, of at least 200.0% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50.0% of the value of the Operating Company's total assets or the Operating Company may borrow an amount equal to 100.0% of net assets). The Operating Company consolidates the assets and liabilities of NMF SLF for the purposes of its financial statements and calculating compliance with the 200.0% asset coverage ratio. Since NMFC and AIV Holdings have no assets other than their ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company and have no material long-term liabilities, NMFC and AIV Holdings look to the Operating Company's assets for purposes of satisfying this test. These requirements limit the amount that the Operating Company may borrow. Because the Operating Company continues to need capital to grow its investment portfolio, these limitations may prevent the Operating Company from incurring debt and require NMFC to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect the Operating Company will be able to borrow and to issue additional debt securities and expect that NMFC will be able to issue additional equity securities, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Operating Company, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to the Operating Company on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as a BDC, NMFC generally is not permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. AIV Holdings does not intend to raise any additional debt or equity capital. If 34 Table of Contents additional funds are not available to NMFC or the Operating Company, the Operating Company may be u forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and the Operating Company's net asset value and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset value, could decline. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. As BDCs, the Companies are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with their respective affiliates without the prior approval of their respective independent directors and, in some cases, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5.0% or more of NMFC's or AIV Holdings' outstanding voting securities is an affiliate of the Companies for purposes of the 1940 Act. The Companies are generally prohibited from buying or selling any securities (other than their respective securities) from or to an affiliate. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain "joint" transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of independent directors and, in some cases, the Securities and Exchange Commission. If a person acquires more than 25.0% of NMFC's or AIV Holdings' voting securities, the Companies are prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than their respective securities) from or to such person or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Similar restrictions limit the Companies' ability to transact business with their respective officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, the Operating Company may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by any affiliate of the Investment Adviser without the prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to the Operating Company. The Investment Adviser has significant potential conflicts of interest with NMFC, AIV Holdings and the Operating Company and, consequently, your interests as stockholders which could adversely impact our investment returns. The Companies' executive officers and directors, as well as the current or future investment professionals of the Investment Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by the Companies' affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in your interests as stockholders. Although we are currently New Mountain Capital's only vehicle focused primarily on investing in the Target Securities, in the future, the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser and/or New Mountain Capital employees that provide services pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement may manage other funds which may from time to time have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those targeted by us. If this occurs, the Investment Adviser may face conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities to the Operating Company and such other funds. Although the investment professionals endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is possible that the Operating Company may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by the Investment Adviser or persons affiliated with the Investment Adviser or that certain of these investment funds may be favored over the Operating Company. When these investment professionals identify an investment, they may be forced to choose which investment fund should make the investment. If the Investment Adviser forms other affiliates in the future, the Operating Company may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliate, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance or an exemptive order from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Operating Company's allocation procedures. In addition, the Operating Company pays management and incentive fees to the Investment Adviser and reimburses the Investment Adviser for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in NMFC's common stock invest in NMFC and 35 Table of Contents indirectly in the Operating Company, on a "gross" basis and receive distributions on a "net" basis after NMFC's pro rata share of the Operating Company's expenses. Also, the incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to pursue investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangements. Any potential conflict of interest arising as a result of the arrangements with the Investment Adviser could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Investment Committee, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting the Operating Company's investment discretion. The Investment Adviser's investment professionals, Investment Committee or their respective affiliates may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest through the Operating Company, the securities of which are purchased or sold on the Operating Company's behalf. In the event that material non-public information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, the Operating Company could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on the Operating Company and, consequently, your interests as stockholders of NMFC and AIV Holdings. The valuation process for certain of the Operating Company's portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. Some of the Operating Company's portfolio investments are made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, the Operating Company's board of directors determines the fair value of these securities in good faith. In connection with this determination, investment professionals from the Investment Adviser may provide the Operating Company's board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, Steven B. Klinsky, a member of the Companies' board of directors, has an indirect pecuniary interest in the Investment Adviser. The participation of the Investment Adviser's investment professionals in the Operating Company's valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in the Investment Adviser by a member of the Companies' board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the Investment Adviser's management fee is based, in part, on the Operating Company's gross assets and incentive fees are based, in part, on unrealized gains and losses. Conflicts of interest may exist related to other arrangements with the Investment Adviser or its affiliates. The Companies have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with New Mountain Capital under which New Mountain Capital has agreed to grant the Companies a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name "New Mountain". In addition, the Operating Company reimburses the Administrator for the allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations to the Companies under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and the allocable portion of the cost of the Companies' chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This could create conflicts of interest that the Operating Company's board of directors must monitor. The Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Adviser and the Administration Agreement with the Administrator were not negotiated on an arm's length basis. The Investment Management Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. In addition, the Companies may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, their respective rights and remedies under these agreements because of their desire to maintain their ongoing relationship with the Investment Adviser, the Administrator and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, could cause NMFC and AIV Holdings to breach its fiduciary obligations to its stockholders. 36 Table of Contents The Investment Adviser's liability is limited under the Investment Management Agreement, and the Operating Company has agreed to indemnify the Investment Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead the Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of the Operating Company's board of directors in following or declining to follow the Investment Adviser's advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser, its officers, members, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by the Investment Adviser are not liable to the Companies, their subsidiaries or any of their respective directors, members or stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of the Investment Adviser's duties under the Investment Management Agreement. In addition, the Operating Company has agreed to indemnify the Investment Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Management Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Investment Management Agreement. These protections may lead the Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner than it would when acting for its own account. The Investment Adviser can resign upon 60 days' notice, and a suitable replacement may not be found within that time, resulting in disruptions in the Operating Company's operations that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Adviser has the right to resign at any time upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If the Investment Adviser resigns, the Operating Company may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If a replacement is not able to be found on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition and the Operating Company's ability to pay distributions are likely to be materially adversely affected and the market price of NMFC's common stock may decline. In addition, if the Operating Company is unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the Investment Adviser and its affiliates, the coordination of its internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer. Even if the Operating Company is able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, their integration into the Operating Company's business and lack of familiarity with the Operating Company's investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Administrator can resign upon 60 days notice from its role as Administrator under the Administration Agreement, and a suitable replacement may not be found, resulting in disruptions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Administrator has the right to resign under the Administration Agreement upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If the Administrator resigns, it may be difficult to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If a replacement is not found quickly, our business, results of operations and financial condition as well as the Operating Company's ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of NMFC's common 37 Table of Contents stock may decline. In addition, the coordination of the Companies' internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if they are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by the Administrator. Even if a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services are retained, whether internal or external, their integration into the Operating Company's business and lack of familiarity with the Operating Company's investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If NMFC, AIV Holdings and the Operating Company fail to maintain their status as BDCs, our business and operating flexibility could be significantly reduced. The Companies qualify as BDCs under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70.0% of their total assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the Securities and Exchange Commission to bring an enforcement action against the Companies and/or expose the Companies to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of NMFC or AIV Holdings' stockholders, or, in the Operating Company's case, a majority of its members voting on a pass through basis, the Companies may elect to withdraw their respective election as a BDC. If the Companies decide to withdraw their election, or if the Companies otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain their qualification, as BDCs, the Companies may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with these regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility and could significantly increase our cost of doing business. If the Operating Company does not invest a sufficient portion of its assets in qualifying assets, it could be precluded from investing in certain assets or could be required to dispose of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a BDC, the Operating Company is prohibited from acquiring any assets other than "qualifying assets" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70.0% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We may acquire in the future other investments that are not "qualifying assets" to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. If the Operating Company does not invest a sufficient portion of its assets in qualifying assets, it would be prohibited from investing in additional assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent the Operating Company from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of its position) or could require the Operating Company to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If the Operating Company needs to dispose of these investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, the Operating Company may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if a buyer is found, it may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. The Operating Company's ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances. To maintain the Operating Company's status, and consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' status as BDCs, the Operating Company is not permitted to acquire any assets other than "qualifying assets" specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70.0% of its total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed 38 Table of Contents on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250.0 million at the time of such investment. Regulations governing the operations of BDCs will affect NMFC's ability to raise additional equity capital as well as the Operating Company's ability to issue senior securities or borrow for investment purposes, any or all of which could have a negative effect on our investment objectives and strategies. The Operating Company's business requires a substantial amount of capital. The Operating Company may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities, including borrowing or other indebtedness. In addition, NMFC may also issue additional equity capital, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Operating Company. Under the 1940 Act, NMFC is not permitted to own any other securities other than common membership units of the Operating Company. As a result, any proceeds from offerings of NMFC's equity securities would be contributed to the Operating Company and subsequently used by the Operating Company for investment purposes. However, NMFC and the Operating Company may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. The Operating Company may issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness or preferred membership units, and it may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities", up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits the Operating Company to issue senior securities in amounts such that its asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200.0% after each issuance of senior securities. The Operating Company consolidates the assets and liabilities of NMF SLF for purposes of its financial statements and calculating compliance with the 200.0% asset coverage ratio. If the Operating Company's asset coverage ratio is not at least 200.0%, it would be unable to issue senior securities, and if it had senior securities outstanding (other than any indebtedness issued in consideration of a privately arranged loan, such as any indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facilities), it would be unable to make distributions to its members and, consequently, NMFC and AIV Holdings would be unable to pay dividends. However, at December 31, 2012, the only senior securities outstanding were indebtedness under the Credit Facilities and therefore at December 31, 2012, the Operating Company would not have been precluded from paying distributions. If the value of the Operating Company's or NMF SLF's assets declines, the Operating Company may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, the Operating Company or NMF SLF may be required to liquidate a portion of its investments and repay a portion of its indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. The Holdings Credit Facility matures on October 27, 2016 and permits borrowings of $210.0 million as of December 31, 2012. The Holdings Credit Facility had $206.9 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2012. The SLF Credit Facility matures on October 27, 2016 and permits borrowings of $215.0 million as of December 31, 2012. The SLF Credit Facility had $214.3 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2012. In addition, the Operating Company may in the future seek to securitize other portfolio securities to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, the Operating Company would likely create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. The Operating Company would then sell interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers and it would retain all or a portion of the equity in the subsidiary. If the Operating Company is unable to successfully securitize its loan portfolio, which must be done in compliance with the relevant restrictions in the Credit Facilities, its ability to grow its business or fully execute its business strategy could be impaired and our earnings, if any, could decrease. The securitization market is subject to changing market conditions and the Operating Company may not be able to access this market when it would otherwise deem appropriate. Moreover, the successful securitization of the Operating Company's portfolio might expose the Operating Company to losses as the residual investments in which it does 39 Table of Contents not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act also may impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. NMFC may also obtain capital for use by the Operating Company through the issuance of additional equity capital, which would in turn increase the equity capital available to the Operating Company. As a BDC, NMFC generally is not able to issue or sell its common stock at a price below net asset value per share. If NMFC's common stock trades at a discount to its net asset value per share, this restriction could adversely affect its ability to raise equity capital. NMFC may, however, sell its common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire its common stock, at a price below its net asset value per share of the common stock if its board of directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in its best interests and the best interests of its stockholders, and its stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which NMFC's securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of NMFC's board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any underwriting commission or discount). If NMFC raises additional funds by issuing more shares of its common stock or if the Operating Company issues senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, NMFC's common stock, the percentage ownership of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' stockholders may decline and you may experience dilution. Any proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of NMFC's common stock would be contributed to the Operating Company and used to purchase, on a one-for-one basis, additional common membership units of the Operating Company. The Operating Company's business model in the future may depend to an extent upon our referral relationships with private equity sponsors, and the inability of the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect its business strategy. If the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser fail to maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, the Operating Company may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the investment professionals of the Investment Adviser have relationships are not obligated to provide the Operating Company with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that any relationships they currently or may in the future have will generate investment opportunities for the Operating Company. We may experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results due to the nature of our business. We could experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the ability or inability of the Operating Company to make investments in companies that meet its investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities acquired and the default rate on such securities, the level of the Operating Company's expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which the Operating Company encounters competition in the markets in which it operates and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. The Operating Company's board of directors may change its investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or member approval, the effects of which may be adverse to your interest as a stockholder. The Operating Company's board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive certain of its operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without member approval. As a result, the Operating Company's board of directors may be able to change its investment policies and objectives without any input from NMFC's and AIV Holdings' 40 Table of Contents stockholders. However, absent member approval, voting on a pass through basis, the Operating Company may not change the nature of its business so as to cease to be, or withdraw its election as, a BDC. Under Delaware law and the Operating Company's Limited Liability Company Agreement, the Operating Company also cannot be dissolved without prior member approval, voting on a pass through basis. We cannot predict the effect any changes to the Operating Company's current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the market price of NMFC's common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair the Operating Company's ability to make distributions to its members, and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' ability to make distributions to its stockholders. NMFC and AIV Holdings will be subject to corporate-level federal income tax on all of their respective income if they are unable to maintain RIC status under Subchapter M of the Code, which would have a material adverse effect on their respective financial performance. Although NMFC and AIV Holdings intend to continue to qualify annually as RICs under Subchapter M of the Code, no assurance can be given that NMFC and AIV Holdings will be able to maintain their RIC status. To maintain RIC status and be relieved of federal income taxes on income and gains distributed to their stockholders, NMFC and AIV Holdings must meet the annual distribution, source-of-income and asset diversification requirements described below. However, NMFC and AIV Holdings have no assets, other than their direct ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company, and no source of cash flow, other than distributions from the Operating Company. NMFC and AIV Holdings are not permitted to conduct any business or ventures, other than in connection with the acquisition, ownership or disposition of common membership units of the Operating Company and its operation as a public reporting company. Accordingly, NMFC and AIV Holdings look to the assets and income of the Operating Company, and rely on the distributions made by the Operating Company to their members, for purposes of satisfying these requirements. 혮The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if NMFC and AIV Holdings distribute to their stockholders on an annual basis at least 90.0% of their net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because the Operating Company and NMF SLF use debt financing, the Operating Company is subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act, and the Operating Company and NMF SLF are subject to certain financial covenants contained in the Credit Facilities and other debt financing agreements (as applicable). This asset coverage ratio requirement and these financial covenants could, under certain circumstances, restrict NMF SLF from making distributions to the Operating Company, and/or restrict the Operating Company from making distributions to its members, which distributions are necessary for NMFC and AIV Holdings to satisfy the distribution requirement. If the Operating Company is unable to obtain cash from other sources, and thus is unable to make sufficient distributions to its members, NMFC and AIV Holdings could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). 혮The source-of-income requirement will be satisfied if at least 90.0% of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' allocable share of the Operating Company's gross income for each year is derived from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. 혮The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if NMFC and AIV Holdings meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of its taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50.0% of the value of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25.0% of the value of NMFC's or AIV Holdings' assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code 41 Table of Contents rules, by it and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain "qualified publicly traded partnerships". Failure to meet these requirements may result in the Operating Company having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' RIC status. Because most of the Operating Company's investments are intended to be in private companies, and therefore may be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. Although there is no authority directly applicable to NMFC and AIV Holdings and thus the matter is not free from doubt, it is expected that NMFC and AIV Holdings is treated as if they directly invested in their pro rata share of the Operating Company's assets for purposes of satisfying the asset diversification requirement. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully assert that NMFC and AIV Holdings do not meet the asset diversification requirement because they are unable to look to the Operating Company's assets for purpose of that requirement. In that case, NMFC and AIV Holdings would fail to qualify as RICs and thus become subject to corporate-level federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). If NMFC and AIV Holdings fail to qualify for or maintain their RIC status for any reason, and NMFC and AIV Holdings do not qualify for certain relief provisions under the Code, NMFC and AIV Holdings would be subject to corporate-level federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). In this event, the resulting taxes could substantially reduce NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of its distributions, which would have a material adverse effect on its financial performance. You may have current tax liabilities on distributions you reinvest in common stock of NMFC. Under the dividend reinvestment plan, if you own shares of common stock of NMFC registered in your own name, you will have all cash distributions automatically reinvested in additional shares of common stock of NMFC unless you opt out of the dividend reinvestment plan by delivering notice by phone, internet or in writing to the plan administrator at least three days prior to the payment date of the next dividend or distribution. If you have not "opted out" of the dividend reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in common stock of NMFC to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your federal income tax liability on the value of the common stock received. NMFC and AIV Holdings may not be able to pay you distributions on their common stock, their distributions to you may not grow over time and a portion of their distributions to you may be a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. NMFC and AIV Holdings intend to pay quarterly distributions to their stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve investment results that will allow NMFC to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If the Operating Company is unable to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to it as a BDC, or if it violates certain covenants under the Credit Facilities, the Operating Company's ability to pay distributions to its members could be limited, thereby limiting NMFC's and AIV Holdings' ability to pay distributions to their stockholders. All distributions are paid at the discretion of the Operating Company's board of directors and depend on its earnings, financial condition, maintenance of NMFC and AIV Holdings RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, compliance with covenants under the Credit Facilities, and such other factors as the Operating Company's board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. The distributions NMFC and AIV Holdings pay to their stockholders in a year may exceed its taxable income for that year and, accordingly, a portion of such distributions may constitute a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. 42 Table of Contents In addition, because NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies, NMFC and AIV Holdings are only able to pay distributions on their common stock from distributions received from the Operating Company. The Operating Company intends to make distributions to its members that will be sufficient to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to pay quarterly distributions to their stockholders and to obtain and maintain their status as RICs. However, there can be no assurances that the Operating Company will make distributions to its members in the future. Accordingly, NMFC and AIV Holdings cannot assure you that they will pay distributions to you in the future. NMFC and AIV Holdings may have difficulty paying their required distributions if the Operating Company recognizes taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, NMFC and AIV Holdings include in their taxable income their allocable share of certain amounts that the Operating Company has not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount or accruals on a contingent payment debt instrument, which may occur if the Operating Company receives warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances or contracted PIK interest, which generally represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. NMFC and AIV Holdings allocable share of such original issue discount and PIK interest are included in NMFC and AIV Holdings taxable income before the Operating Company receives any corresponding cash payments. NMFC and AIV Holdings also may be required to include in their taxable income their allocable share of certain other amounts that the Operating Company will not receive in cash. Because in certain cases the Operating Company may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, the Operating Company may have difficulty making distributions to the Operating Company's members that will be sufficient to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to meet the annual distribution requirement necessary for NMFC and AIV Holdings to qualify as RICs. Accordingly, the Operating Company may need to sell some of its assets at times and/or at prices that it would not consider advantageous, NMFC or the Operating Company may need to raise additional equity or debt capital, or the Operating Company may need to forego new investment opportunities or otherwise take actions that are disadvantageous to its business (or be unable to take actions that are advantageous to its business) to enable the Operating Company to make distributions to its members that will be sufficient to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to meet the annual distribution requirement. If NMFC or the Operating Company are unable to obtain cash from other sources to enable NMFC and AIV Holdings to meet the annual distribution requirement, NMFC and AIV Holdings may fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes). It is expected that, if the Operating Company does not make cash distributions to AIV Holdings in amounts sufficient for AIV Holdings to meet the annual distribution requirement necessary for AIV Holdings to qualify as a RIC, Guardian AIV would consent to be treated as if it received distributions from AIV Holdings sufficient to satisfy the annual distribution requirement necessary for AIV Holdings to qualify as a RIC. This would result in phantom (i.e. non-cash) taxable income to Guardian AIV. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Operating Company's operations may adversely affect our business or cause the Operating Company to alter its business strategy. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. The Companies and the Operating Company's portfolio companies are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including with respect to the types of investments the Operating Company is permitted to make, and your interest as a stockholder potentially with retroactive effect. In addition, any changes to the laws 43 Table of Contents and regulations governing the Operating Company's operations relating to permitted investments may cause the Operating Company to alter its investment strategy in order to avail itself of new or different opportunities. These changes could result in material changes to the strategies and plans set forth in this prospectus and may result in the Operating Company's investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of the Investment Adviser to other types of investments in which the Investment Adviser may have less expertise or little or no experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, the value of your investment in us. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank, became law. The scope of Dodd-Frank impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several months and years. The effects of Dodd-Frank on the financial services industry will depend upon the timing and substance of regulations adopted by the various regulatory authorities to implement Dodd-Frank. The affect of global climate change may impact the operations of the Operating Company's portfolio companies. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of the Operating Company's portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of the Operating Company's portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of the Operating Company's portfolio companies' financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Pending legislation may allow the Operating Company to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act the Operating Company generally is not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing the Operating Company has an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200.0% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50.0% of the value of the Operating Company's total assets or the Operating Company may borrow an amount equal to 100.0% of net assets). Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the percentage from 200.0% to 150.0%. As a result, the Operating Company may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stock may increase. NMFC incurs significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, NMFC incurs legal, accounting and other expenses, which are paid by the Operating Company, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002, or the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act", and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 44 Table of Contents Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect NMFC and the market price of NMFC's common stock. The Companies are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under current Securities and Exchange Commission rules, the Operating Company's management is required to report on their internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder. The Companies are required to review on an annual basis their respective internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our respective internal control over financial reporting. As a result, the Companies may incur significant additional expenses in the near term, which may negatively impact the Operating Company's financial performance and the Operating Company's ability to make distributions to its members and, consequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' ability to make distributions to their stockholders. This process also may result in a diversion of management's time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of any evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations and neither of the Companies may be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that the Companies are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, the Operating Company and, consequently, the market price of NMFC and AIV Holdings common stock may be adversely affected. The Operating Company's business is highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stock and its ability to pay dividends. The Operating Company's business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of the Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Any failure or interruption of such systems could cause delays or other problems in the Operating Company's activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Operating Company's operating results and, consequently, negatively affect the market price of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' common stock and their ability to pay dividends to their stockholders. In addition, because many of the Operating Company's portfolio companies operate and rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications and internal technology systems for development, marketing, operational, support and other business activities, a disruption or failure of any or all of these systems in the event of a major telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, fire, earthquake, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in product development and loss of critical data and could otherwise disrupt their business operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE OPERATING COMPANY'S INVESTMENTS The Operating Company's investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and the Operating Company could lose all or part of its investment. Investing in middle-market businesses involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies: 혮may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that the Operating Company holds, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of the Operating Company realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of its portfolio companies that the Operating Company may have obtained in connection with its investment, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of any equity components of its investments; 45 Table of Contents 혮may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or more significant customer concentrations than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 혮are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the Operating Company's portfolio company and, in turn, on us; 혮generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence; 혮may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and 혮generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of the Operating Company's portfolio companies, certain of the Operating Company's officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of the Operating Company's investments in these companies, the Operating Company's officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through the Operating Company's indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources. The Operating Company's investment strategy, which is focused primarily on privately held companies, presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. The Operating Company invests primarily in privately held companies. There is generally little public information about these companies, and, as a result, the Operating Company must rely on the ability of the Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from, and risks related to, investing in these companies. If the Operating Company is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and it may lose money on its investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. They are, thus, generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. These factors could adversely affect the Operating Company's investment returns. If the Operating Company makes unsecured investments, those investments might not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to the Operating Company. The Operating Company may make unsecured investments. Unsecured investments may be subordinated to other obligations of the obligor. Unsecured investments often reflect a greater possibility that adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or general economic conditions (including, for example, a substantial period of rising interest rates or declining earnings) or both may impair the ability of the obligor to make payment of principal and interest. If the Operating Company makes an unsecured investment in a portfolio company, that portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may increase the risk that its operations might not generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations. 46 Table of Contents If the Operating Company invests in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, it might not receive interest or other payments. From time to time, the Operating Company may invest in other types of investments which are not its primary focus, including investments in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. Such investments generally are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer of those obligations might not make any interest or other payments. The lack of liquidity in the Operating Company's investments may adversely affect our business. The Operating Company invests, and will continue to invest, in companies whose securities are not publicly traded and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for the Operating Company to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if the Operating Company is required or otherwise chooses to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, it may realize significantly less than the value at which it had previously recorded these investments. The Operating Company's investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. Because most of the Operating Company's investments are illiquid, the Operating Company may be unable to dispose of them in which case NMFC or AIV Holdings could fail to qualify as a RIC and/or BDC, or the Operating Company may be unable to do so at a favorable price, and, as a result, the Operating Company, NMFC and AIV Holdings may suffer losses. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of the Operating Company's portfolio investments, reducing the Operating Company's net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, the Operating Company is required to carry its investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by its board of directors. Because NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies with no direct operations of their own, and their only business and sole asset are their ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset value will be based on the Operating Company's valuation of its investments and their respective percentage interest in the Operating Company. As part of the valuation process, the Operating Company may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of its investments: 혮a comparison of the portfolio company's securities to publicly traded securities; 혮the enterprise value of a portfolio company; 혮the nature and realizable value of any collateral; 혮the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow; 혮the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and 혮changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent sale occurs, the Operating Company will use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate its valuation. 47 Table of Contents The Operating Company will record decreases in the market values or fair values of its investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in its portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on the Operating Company's portfolio may reduce the Operating Company's net asset value, and, indirectly, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' net asset value based on their respective percentage interest in the Operating Company, by increasing net unrealized depreciation in the Operating Company's portfolio. Depending on market conditions, the Operating Company could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Operating Company is unable to make follow-on investments in its portfolio companies, the value of the Operating Company's investment portfolio could be adversely affected. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, the Operating Company may make additional investments in that portfolio company as "follow-on" investments, in order to (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part its equity ownership percentage, (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of its investment. The Operating Company may elect not to make follow-on investments or may otherwise lack sufficient funds to make these investments. The Operating Company has the discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. If the Operating Company fails to make follow-on investments, the continued viability of a portfolio company and its investment may, in some circumstances, be jeopardized and we could miss an opportunity for the Operating Company to increase its participation in a successful operation. Even if the Operating Company has sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, it may elect not to make a follow-on investment because it may not want to increase its concentration of risk, either because it prefers other opportunities or because it is subject to BDC requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments or such follow-on investments would adversely impact NMFC's and AIV Holdings' ability to maintain their respective RIC status. The Operating Company's portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, its investments in such companies. The Operating Company invests in portfolio companies at all levels of the capital structure. The Operating Company's portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which the Operating Company invests. By their terms, these debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which the Operating Company is entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which it invests. In addition, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to the Operating Company's investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before it receives any distribution. After repaying the senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to the Operating Company. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which the Operating Company invests, it would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. The disposition of the Operating Company's investments may result in contingent liabilities. Most of the Operating Company's investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, the Operating Company may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made 48 Table of Contents in connection with the sale of a business. The Operating Company may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through the Operating Company's return of certain distributions previously made to it. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or the Operating Company could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though the Operating Company may have structured certain of its investments as senior loans, if one of its portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which the Operating Company actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize its debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of the Operating Company's claim to that of other creditors. The Operating Company may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by it with respect to a borrower's business or instances where it exercises control over the borrower. It is possible that the Operating Company could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that the Operating Company makes to its portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and the Operating Company. Certain loans to portfolio companies will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before the Operating Company. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then the Operating Company, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any. The rights the Operating Company may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans it makes to its portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements entered into with the holders of first priority senior debt. Under an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings, the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. The Operating Company may not have the ability to control or direct these actions, even if its rights are adversely affected. 49 Table of Contents The Operating Company generally does not control its portfolio companies. The Operating Company does not, and does not expect to, control most of its portfolio companies, even though the Operating Company may have board representation or board observation rights, and its debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants that limit the business and operations of its portfolio companies. As a result, the Operating Company is subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which the Operating Company disagrees and the management of such company, in which the Operating Company invests as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve the Operating Company's interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity of the investments that the Operating Company typically holds in its portfolio companies, it may not be able to dispose of its investments in the event that the Operating Company disagrees with the actions of a portfolio company as readily as it would otherwise like to or at favorable prices which could decrease the value of its investments. Economic recessions, downturns or government spending cuts could impair the Operating Company's portfolio companies and harm its operating results. Many of the Operating Company's portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay its debt investments during these periods. Therefore, the Operating Company's non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of the Operating Company's portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of the Operating Company's debt investments and the value of its equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in the Operating Company's portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase the Operating Company's funding costs, limit NMFC's and the Operating Company's access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Operating Company. These events could prevent the Operating Company from increasing investments and harm its operating results. In addition, levels of the U.S. government's spending in future periods are very difficult to predict and subject to significant risks. Significant budgetary constraints may result in further reductions to projected spending levels. In particular, U.S. government expenditures are subject to the potential for automatic reductions, generally referred to as "sequestration". Sequestration, which is in the process of being implemented, is expected to result in significant additional reductions to spending by the U.S. government on both existing and new contracts as well as disruption of ongoing programs. Also, we expect that budgetary constraints and ongoing concerns regarding the U.S. national debt will continue to place downward pressure on U.S. government spending levels. Due to these and other factors, overall U.S. government spending could decline, which could result in significant reductions to the revenues, cash flow and profits of the Operating Company's portfolio companies. Defaults by the Operating Company's portfolio companies may harm its operating results. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by the Operating Company or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that the Operating Company holds. The Operating Company may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise 50 Table of Contents control over a borrower. It is possible that the Operating Company could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if it renders significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Furthermore, if one of the Operating Company's portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, even though the Operating Company may have structured its investment as senior secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which the Operating Company provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize its debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of the Operating Company's claim to claims of other creditors. Prepayments of the Operating Company's debt investments by its portfolio companies could adversely impact the Operating Company's results of operations and reduce its return on equity. The Operating Company is subject to the risk that the investments it makes in its portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, subject to maintenance of NMFC's and AIV Holdings' RIC status, the Operating Company will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and the Operating Company could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, the Operating Company's results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to the Operating Company. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact the Operating Company's return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of NMFC's common stock. The Operating Company may not realize gains from its equity investments. When the Operating Company invests in portfolio companies, it may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. The Operating Company may also invest in equity securities directly. To the extent the Operating Company holds equity investments, it will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon its disposition of them. However, the equity interests the Operating Company receives may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. As a result, the Operating Company may not be able to realize gains from its equity interests, and any gains that it does realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses it experiences. The Operating Company also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow the Operating Company to sell the underlying equity interests. The performance of the Operating Company's portfolio companies may differ from its historical performance as its investment strategy will include primary originations in addition to secondary market purchases. Historically, the Operating Company's investment strategy consisted primarily of secondary market purchases in debt securities. The Operating Company recently adjusted its investment strategy to also include primary originations. While loans the Operating Company originates and loans its purchases in the secondary market face many of the same risks associated with the financing of leveraged companies, the Operating Company may be exposed to different risks depending on specific business considerations for secondary market purchases or origination of loans. As a result, this strategy may result in different returns from these investments than the types of returns it has historically experienced from secondary market purchases of debt securities. 51 Table of Contents The Operating Company may be subject to additional risks if it invests in foreign securities and/or engage in hedging transactions. The 1940 Act generally requires that 70.0% of the Operating Company's investments be in issuers each of whom is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, any state of the U.S., the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any other possession of the U.S. The Operating Company's investment strategy does not presently contemplate significant investments in securities of non-U.S. companies. However, the Operating Company may desire to make such investments in the future, to the extent that such transactions and investments are permitted under the 1940 Act. The Operating Company expects that these investments would focus on the same types of investments that it makes in U.S. middle-market companies and accordingly would be complementary to its overall strategy and enhance the diversity of its holdings. Investing in foreign companies could expose the Operating Company to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Investments denominated in foreign currencies would be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. The Operating Company may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but it can offer no assurance that it will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or that if it does, such strategies will be effective. Engaging in hedging transactions would also, indirectly, entail additional risks to NMFC and AIV Holdings stockholders. Although it is not currently anticipated that the Operating Company would engage in hedging transactions as a principal investment strategy, if the Operating Company determined to engage in hedging transactions it generally would seek to hedge against fluctuations of the relative values of its portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates or currency exchange rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of the Operating Company's portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of the positions declined. However, such hedging could establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. These hedging transactions could also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions increased. Moreover, it might not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that was so generally anticipated that the Operating Company would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. If the Operating Company chooses to engage in hedging transactions, there can be no assurances that the Operating Company will achieve the intended benefits of such transactions and, depending on the degree of exposure such transactions could create, such transactions may expose the Operating Company and, indirectly, NMFC and AIV Holdings to risk of loss. While the Operating Company may enter into these types of transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged could vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, the Operating Company might not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any imperfect correlation could prevent the Operating Company from achieving the intended hedge and 52 Table of Contents expose the Operating Company, NMFC and AIV Holdings to risk of loss. In addition, it might not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities would likely fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies with no direct operations of their own, and will depend on distributions from the Operating Company to meet their ongoing obligations. NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies with no direct operations of their own, and their only business and sole asset are their respective direct ownership of common membership units of the Operating Company. As a result, all investment decisions relating to the Operating Company's portfolio will be made by the Investment Adviser under the supervision of the Operating Company's board of directors, which may be different from NMFC's or AIV Holdings' board of directors. Although the Operating Company's Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement provides that in accordance with the 1940 Act and to the extent required thereby, NMFC and AIV Holdings will "pass through" their respective votes on all matters subject to a member vote, including with respect to the election of the Operating Company's directors, NMFC and AIV Holdings will not, and indirectly, the stockholders of NMFC and AIV Holdings will not, have any control over the Operating Company's day-to-day operations and investment decisions. NMFC and AIV Holdings also do not have any independent ability to generate revenue, and their only sources of cash flow from operations are distributions from the Operating Company. Consequently, NMFC and AIV Holdings rely on the Operating Company to cover the expenses of their day-to-day business, including expenses incident to NMFC's status as a public company. Pursuant to the Administration Agreement, the Operating Company will reimburse the Administrator for NMFC's and AIV Holdings' allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations to NMFC and AIV Holdings under the Administration Agreement. However, if the Operating Company cannot or does not make the payments required pursuant to the Administration Agreement, NMFC and AIV Holdings may be unable to cover these expenses. In addition, since NMFC and AIV Holdings are holding companies, their ability to pay distributions to their stockholders depends on the prior distribution from the Operating Company of cash in an amount sufficient to pay quarterly distributions and to obtain and maintain their statuses as RICs. The distribution of cash flows by the Operating Company to NMFC and AIV Holdings is subject to statutory restrictions under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, the 1940 Act and contractual restrictions under the Credit Facilities or any other debt financing facility that may limit the Operating Company's or NMF SLF's ability to make distributions. In addition, any distributions and payments of fees or costs will be based upon the Operating Company's financial performance. Any distributions of cash will be made on a pro rata basis to all of the Operating Company's members, including NMFC and Guardian AIV, indirectly, through AIV Holdings, in accordance with each holders' respective percentage interest. New Mountain Capital or its affiliates may have interests that differ from your interests as stockholders of NMFC. Guardian AIV indirectly owns, through AIV Holdings, approximately 40.0% of the common membership units of the Operating Company as of December 31, 2012. New Mountain Capital's interests, the interests of the partners in Guardian AIV and the interests of those persons affiliated with New Mountain Capital that participated in the Concurrent Private Placement may differ from, or conflict with, your interests as stockholders of NMFC. For example, conflicts arising under the Registration Rights Agreement will be resolved as set forth therein. Under the Registration Rights 53 Table of Contents Agreement, AIV Holdings and the Operating Company's Chairman and a related entity will have priority over NMFC or any other NMFC stockholder when selling any shares of NMFC common stock pursuant to their exercise of registration rights under that agreement. Circumstances may arise in the future when the interests of the Operating Company's members conflict with the interests of NMFC's stockholders. The Operating Company's board of directors and the board of directors of NMFC are comprised of the same members. However, the Operating Company's board of directors owes fiduciary duties to its members that could conflict with the fiduciary duties NMFC's board of directors owes to its stockholders. Any future exchange by AIV Holdings of units of the Operating Company for shares of NMFC's common stock would significantly dilute the voting power of NMFC's current stockholders with respect to the election of NMFC directors or other matters that require the approval of NMFC stockholders only. In addition, the interests of the partners of Guardian AIV following such exchange by AIV Holdings may be adverse to the interests of NMFC's stockholders and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including any change of control. Pursuant to the terms of the Operating Company's Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement, AIV Holdings will have the right to exchange its units for shares of NMFC's common stock on a one-for-one basis at anytime. Guardian AIV indirectly owns, through AIV Holdings, approximately 40.0% of the units of the Operating Company as of December 31, 2012. If AIV Holdings exercised its exchange rights with respect to a significant number of units, the voting power of NMFC's stockholders would be significantly diluted. As a result, Guardian AIV, indirectly through AIV Holdings, would retain significant influence over decisions that require the approval of NMFC's stockholders exclusively (such as the election of its directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions) regardless of whether or not NMFC's other stockholders believe that such decisions are in NMFC's own best interests. If AIV Holdings exercised its exchange rights in full, Guardian AIV, indirectly through AIV Holdings would own approximately 40.0% of all outstanding shares of NMFC's common stock as of December 31, 2012. However, these entities would not exercise voting control over their shares of common stock because the right to vote those shares would be passed through to the partners of these entities. These investors, along with those persons affiliated with New Mountain Capital that participated in the Concurrent Private Placement, may have interests that differ from your interests, and they may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests as stockholders of NMFC. The concentration of ownership of NMFC's common stock following the exercise of AIV Holdings' exchange right may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of NMFC, could deprive NMFC's stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of NMFC and may adversely affect the market price of NMFC's common stock. RISKS RELATING TO NEW MOUNTAIN FINANCE CORPORATION'S COMMON STOCK The market price of NMFC's common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of NMFC's common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to the Operating Company's operating performance. These factors include: 혮price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or in the market for BDCs from time to time; 혮investor demand for shares of NMFC's common stock; 54 Table of Contents 혮significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered closed-end management investment companies, BDCs or other financial services companies, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; 혮the inability to raise equity capital; 혮the Operating Company's inability to borrow money or deploy or invest its capital; 혮fluctuations in interest rates; 혮any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; 혮operating performance of companies comparable to the Operating Company; 혮changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or BDCs; 혮NMFC's or the Operating Company's loss of status as or ability to operate as BDCs; 혮NMFC's failure to qualify as a RIC, loss of RIC status or ability operate as a RIC; 혮actual or anticipated changes in the Operating Company's earnings or fluctuations in its operating results; 혮changes in the value of the Operating Company's portfolio of investments; 혮general economic conditions, trends and other external factors; 혮departures of key personnel; or 혮loss of a major source of funding. In addition, NMFC is required to continue to meet certain listing standards in order for its common stock to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). On January 2, 2013, the Companies received a letter of public reprimand from the NYSE indicating that NMFC had failed to comply with Section 204.12 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requiring ten days prior notice of a record date, in connection with the announcement of a special dividend distribution. While NMFC believes that it is not currently at risk of being delisted by the NYSE, if it was to be delisted, the liquidity of NMFC's common stock would be impaired. Investing in NMFC's common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments the Operating Company may make may result in a higher amount of risk, volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. These investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in NMFC's common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. Sales of substantial amounts of NMFC's common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of NMFC's common stock, including by itself directly, AIV Holdings, if it exercises its right to exchange its common membership units of the Operating Company for shares of NMFC's common stock on a one-for-one basis, or New Mountain Guardian Partners, L.P. or its transferees or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the prevailing market prices for NMFC's common stock. AIV Holdings currently intends to sell its interest in the Operating Company's business as soon as practicable from time to time, depending on market conditions and any applicable contractual or legal restrictions. AIV Holdings, and the Investment Adviser, if applicable with respect to any common membership units received as payment of the incentive fee, have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require NMFC to register under the 55 Table of Contents federal securities laws the sale of any shares of NMFC's common stock held by them or that may be issued to and held by them upon exercise by AIV Holdings of the exchange right. In addition, NMFC has granted AIV Holdings, the Operating Company's Chairman, an entity related to the Operating Company's Chairman and the Investment Adviser, if applicable with respect to any common membership units received as payment of the incentive fee, and their permitted transferees certain "piggyback" registration rights which allow them to include their shares in any future registrations of NMFC equity securities, whether or not that registration relates to a primary offering by NMFC or a secondary offering by or on behalf of any of NMFC's stockholders or AIV Holdings. In particular, these parties will have priority over NMFC and any other of its stockholders in any registration that is an underwritten offering. Any such filing or the perception that such a filing may occur, could cause the prevailing market price of NMFC's common stock to decline and may impact NMFC's ability to sell equity to finance the Operating Company's operations. If substantial amounts of NMFC's common stock were sold, this could impair its ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should NMFC desire to do so. Certain provisions of NMFC's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law as well as other aspects of our structure, including Guardian AIV's substantial interest in the Operating Company, could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of NMFC's common stock. NMFC's certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. Among other things, NMFC's certificate of incorporation and bylaws: 혮provide for a classified board of directors, which may delay the ability of NMFC's stockholders to change the membership of a majority of its board of directors; 혮authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by NMFC's board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; 혮do not provide for cumulative voting; 혮provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; 혮provide that NMFC's directors may be removed only for cause; 혮require supermajority voting to effect certain amendments to NMFC's certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and 혮require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of NMFC's common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for its common stock. The Credit Facilities also include covenants that, among other things, restrict its ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. The Credit Facilities also include change of control provisions that accelerate the indebtedness under this facility in the event of certain change of control events. In addition, certain aspects of our structure, including Guardian AIV's substantial interest in the Operating Company may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for NMFC. 56 Table of Contents Shares of NMFC's common stock have traded at a discount from net asset value and may do so in the future. Shares of closed-end investment companies have frequently traded at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. In part as a result of adverse economic conditions and increasing pressure within the financial sector of which the Companies are a part, NMFC's common stock has at times traded below its net asset value per share since NMFC's IPO on May 19, 2011. NMFC's shares could once again trade at a discount to net asset value. The possibility that NMFC's shares of common stock may trade at a discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that the Companies' net asset value will decrease. The Companies cannot predict whether shares of NMFC's common stock will trade above, at or below its net asset value. If NMFC's common stock trades below its net asset value, NMFC will generally not be able to issue additional shares of NMFC's common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from its stockholders and its independent directors. If additional funds are not available to the Operating Company, the Companies could be forced to curtail or cease the Operating Company's new lending and investment activities, and the Companies' net asset value could decrease and the Companies' level of distributions could be impacted. You may not receive dividends or the Companies' dividends may decline or may not grow over time. The Companies cannot assure you that the Companies will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In particular, the Operating Company's future dividends, and subsequently, NMFC's and AIV Holdings' future dividends, are dependent upon the investment income they receive on the Operating Company's portfolio investments. To the extent such investment income declines, the Companies' ability to pay future dividends may be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 