D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report, including the following risk factors. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially or adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Recent contractionary government measures have had a significant adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and other aspects of our operating results, as well as our stock price. The real estate market in China is typically affected by changes in government policies and regulatory measures affecting the property market, financial markets and related areas. In the past, the PRC government has adopted various policies and regulatory measures to curb what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market, particularly at times when the real estate market in China experienced rapid and significant growth. For example, in 2007, property sales volumes and average selling prices in China increased rapidly to unprecedented levels, culminating in a property market downturn beginning in late 2007 due to the PRC government’s intervention in the real estate market to stabilize market prices and reduce the level of speculation in the property market. Property sales in China recovered in 2009 and experienced significant growth thereafter in part due to the PRC government’s measures aimed at stimulating residential property purchases and stabilizing the real estate market until early 2010. Recently, the PRC government implemented a series of measures to curb the rise of housing prices and excessive lending in the real estate industry, including the following: On April 17, 2010, the State Council issued the Notice on Firmly Preventing Overly Fast Growth of Real Property Prices in Certain Cities, or the April Notice, which stipulated that a property purchaser’s down payment for such purchaser’s first property purchase must not be less than 30% of the purchase price if gross floor area of the property is larger than 90 square meters; a purchaser’s down payment for such purchaser’s second property purchase must not be less than 50% of the purchase price and the mortgage loan interest rate must not be less than 1.1 times the base lending rate published by the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC; and a purchaser’s down payment and mortgage loan interest rate must significantly increase for such purchaser’s third and additional property purchases. In addition, in areas with short supply in residential properties and rapid property price increase, commercial banks may suspend the granting of mortgage loans for the third and additional property purchases or to non-residents without proof of tax or social security payment of more than one year. The local governments may also adopt interim measures restricting the maximum number of residential properties that may be purchased by an individual buyer. On September 29, 2010, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-rural Development, the People’s Bank of China, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Finance promulgated a series of administrative rules, or the September Rules, to further implement the April Notice. The September Rules require that commercial banks suspend granting of mortgage loans on a nationwide basis (i) for any third or additional property purchases of any purchaser or (ii) to any non-resident purchaser unable to provide proof of tax or social security payment for more than one year. The September Rules stipulate that a property purchaser’s down payment for the first property purchase must not be less than 30% of the purchase price regardless of the gross floor area of the property purchased. The September Rules further require that legal requirements as set forth in the April Notice regarding a property purchaser’s down payment for his second property purchase and the applicable loan interest rate be strictly implemented. The September Rules also revoke certain preferential individual income tax treatment to the purchaser who sells his residential property and purchases another residential property within one year of the sale. On January 26, 2011, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council on Issues Related to Further Enhancing the Regulation and Control of Real Estate Market, or the January Notice. According to the January Notice, for those households who purchase a second house using a mortgage loan, the down payment may not be lower than 60% of the purchase price regardless of the gross floor area of the property purchased. The mortgage loan interest may not be lower than 1.1 times the base lending rate published by the PBOC. The respective branches of the PBOC may raise the down payment ratio and mortgage interest rate on mortgage loans for a second home purchase based on the price control targets set by the local governments, the policy requirements set by the State Council and the national unified credit policies. In addition, under the January Notice, all municipalities directly under the central government, cities specifically designated in the state plan, provincial capitals and cities in which housing prices are excessively high or rising rapidly, or the affected areas, are required to formulate and implement measures to restrict home purchases prior to mid-February 2011. Other affected cities are required to formulate and implement measures to restrict home purchases within an appropriate time frame determined according to the respective situations of the 7 Table of Contents local real estate markets. Under the January Notice, no residential property may be sold to households with a local registered residence in any of the affected areas owning two or more pieces of residential property, households without a local registered residence owning one or more pieces of residential property, or households without a local registered residence that are unable to submit a local tax payment certificate or proof of social insurance contributions for a minimum period to be further stipulated by local governments. In addition, no more than one piece of residential property (including newly constructed commodity housing and second-hand housing) may be sold to households with a local registered residence in any of the affected areas owning no other residential property or households without a local registered residence that are able to submit a local tax payment certificate or proof of social insurance contributions for a minimum period to be further stipulated by local governments. Furthermore, on August 17, 2011, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-rural Development published the criteria to determine whether a city should formulate and implement measures to restrict home purchases, including the housing prices, transaction volume, location and other housing price-related factors. As a result, certain cities such as Taizhou, Quzhou, Foshan and Zhuhai, have published and implemented their respective measures to restrict home purchases. As a result of these measures to cool down the overheating property market and to curb excessive lending in the real estate industry, transaction volumes in the property market in many cities in China, such as Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, have declined significantly. As a primary real estate services provider, we are significantly affected by these government policies and regulatory measures as we primarily generate revenue based on the value of the property transactions to which we provide primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services. As a result of the restrictive policies and credit tightening measures on real estate industry by the PRC government, our results of operations were significantly affected. Our net revenue decreased by RMB34.4 million, or 5.5%, from RMB629.0 million in 2010 to RMB594.6 million in 2011; our overall effective commission rate decreased from 1.2% in 2010 to 1.0% in 2011; and our net income decreased by RMB182.3 million, or 96.2%, from RMB189.6 million in 2010 to RMB7.3 million in 2011. In addition, price of our ADSs also declined significantly during the same period. If such restrictive policies on the real estate industry continue, our results of operations will continue to suffer from the adverse effect of such policies. In addition, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not adopt new measures in the future that may result in lower growth rates in the real estate industry. Any of the following could cause a further decline in property sales volumes and average selling prices as well as the related revenue we generate from our business: · any contractionary monetary policy adopted by the PRC government, including any significant rise in interest rates; · any adverse development in the credit markets or mortgage financing markets resulting from PRC government policies, such as the government efforts to significantly increase the level of minimum down payment and applicable interest rate for property purchases based on the nature of the property and the number of properties already owned by the purchaser; · any significant increase in transaction costs as a result of changes in PRC government policies regarding real estate transaction taxes, such as reinstatement in 2010 of a business tax on residential property sales by individuals within five years of purchase; · any adverse change in PRC government policies regarding the acquisition and/or ownership of real estate property; · any adverse change in PRC national or local government policies or practices regarding primary real estate sales agency and consultancy business or related fees and commissions; or · any other adverse change in PRC government policies or regulations regarding the real estate industry. Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market in China, which is volatile and at an early stage of development. Any significant fluctuations in this market could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and growth prospects. We conduct our real estate services business in China, and our business depends substantially on the conditions of the real estate market in China. The real estate market in China remains at an early stage of development, and social, political, economic and other factors may affect its development. The growth in demand for private residential property in China in recent years has often been coupled with volatile market conditions and fluctuations in property prices. The PRC property market may experience undersupply or oversupply of available-for-sale properties and property price fluctuations caused by economic, social, political and other factors. For example, following a period of rising property prices and transaction volumes in most major cities from 2003 to 2007, the property market of China experienced a downturn in 2008 which continued into the first quarter of 2009, with transaction volumes in many major cities declining significantly compared to 2007. Average selling prices also declined in many cities during such period. In early 2009, China’s real estate market rebounded and many cities experienced increases in property prices and transaction volumes. The recovery in 2009 coincided with a sharp rise in the volume of bank loans as part of China’s response to the global economic crisis. Since April 2010, the PRC government began to adopt a series of measures to cool down the overheating property market and to curb 8 Table of Contents excessive lending in the real estate industry. Later in 2010 and in early 2011, the PRC government issued various additional rules, orders and notices to strengthen the regulation and control of the real estate market. Under these rules, orders and notices, more stringent measures were implemented in order to effectively curb the rise of housing prices. Such measures and policies by the government have negatively affected the real estate market and caused a reduction in transactions in the real estate market. While these measures and policies remain in effect, they may continue to depress the real estate market, dissuade potential home buyers from making purchases, reduce transaction volume and cause a decline in average selling prices. Any future downturns in the real estate sector or other adverse changes in the economic, social and political environment in China may result in decreases in property prices and overall transaction activities, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue, profitability, growth prospects and the price of our ADSs as well. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consistent with the real estate market in China in general, our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions globally and in China. A number of general business and economic factors could contribute to a real estate market downturn and adversely affect our business, including: · any systemic weakness in the banking and financial sectors; · any substantial declines in the stock markets or continued stock market volatility; · any increase in levels of unemployment; · a lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial sector; · changes in interest rates; · changes in inflation or deflation levels; and · any general economic downturn in China or the global economy, or a lack of consumer confidence in the economy. In particular, the global financial crisis that began in 2008 has adversely affected the United States, Europe and other world economies, including China. Our 2008 operating results were also adversely affected as a result. In addition, the global financial crisis resulted in a tightening in credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and increased volatility in credit and equity markets. Adverse developments in these general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and if this industry does not develop or mature as quickly as we expect, the growth and success of our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our development has depended, and will continue to depend, substantially on the growth of the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry in China and in the specific regions where we operate, which is relatively new. The development of the real estate services industry depends on, among others, real estate developers’ continuing outsourcing of property sales and other functions to professional real estate services companies in China and particularly in the specific regions where we operate. The failure of the real estate services industry to develop rapidly in China may materially and adversely affect the growth and success of our business. It is difficult to evaluate our results of operations and future prospects due to our limited operating history in the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry. We began focusing on providing primary real estate services in the second half of 2004, initially in Beijing. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history in the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry from which you can evaluate our business and future prospects. Our net revenue from the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services business fluctuated, amounting to RMB432.7 million, RMB629.0 million and RMB594.6 million for 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We may not be able to continue our growth at rates similar to those at which we have historically grown, if at all, because, among other reasons, we may not be able to maintain the current level of business operations or to expand our business operations into other geographic regions in future periods. As a result, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We rely on business from a limited number of clients. Any loss of business from a significant client may materially and adversely affect our revenue, profit and other aspects of our results of operations. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, net revenue derived from services we rendered to our largest five clients, which were all property developers, 9 Table of Contents accounted for approximately 70.1%, 64.1% and 56.9%, respectively, of our total net revenue. Excluding net revenue derived from Guo’ao Investment Company and Development Co., Ltd., which is the property developer of the Guo’ao Project and our single largest client in 2011, our largest four clients would have collectively accounted for 54.0%, 56.9% and 47.6% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with these major clients, or that we will be able to continue to render services to these clients at current levels, or at all. In addition, any decline in our major clients’ business could lead to a decline in service engagements with these clients. Should these property developer clients terminate or substantially reduce their business with us and we fail to find alternative clients to provide us with revenue-generating business, our revenue, profit and other aspects of results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to administrative fines or penalties in the event that the relevant PRC government authorities determine that we are in violation of the statutory limitation on real estate sales agency commission rates. Pursuant to the Real Property Intermediary Service Charges Circular promulgated by China’s State Planning Commission (the predecessor authority of National Development and Reform Commission) and China’s Ministry of Construction (the predecessor authority of China’s Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development) on July 7, 1995, or the Service Charges Circular, commission rates for real estate transactions may not exceed 2.5% of the transaction value if sales agency services are provided on a non-exclusive basis or 3% of the transaction value if sales agency services are provided on an exclusive basis. Local governments are authorized to adopt more specific limitations within these statutory limitations. For example, in Beijing, according to the relevant local administrative rules, commissions may not exceed 2.8% of the transaction value for sales agency services provided on an exclusive basis. The government authority in charge of pricing inspection is authorized to impose administrative fines or penalties if any sales agency services provider receives commissions exceeding the statutory limitation. However, the Service Charges Circular does not stipulate the method to calculate the commissions or specify the administrative fines or penalties for any violation. No implementation rule has been issued by any relevant authorities. It is unclear how the local pricing bureaus, which are in charge of pricing inspection, will implement the Service Charges Circular in practice. In addition to base commissions, a number of our engagements are structured to include possible supplemental and bonus commissions, which, if aggregated with our base commissions, may yield an effective overall commission rate that exceeds the statutory limitation. Historically, six of an aggregate of 253 sales agency projects, representing 164 thousand square meters of 12,570 thousand square meters of gross floor area of properties sold, including the Guo’ao Project, our single largest project in terms of revenue contributions during the three years ended December 31, 2011, from which we derived revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, yielded effective overall commission rates that may have exceeded the statutory limitations. Net revenue derived from such projects represented 40%, 17% and 18% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Based on our sales agency agreements entered into as of December 31, 2011, 27 of the 196 sales agency projects we entered into, representing 4,411 thousand square meters of 28,290 thousand square meters of gross floor area of properties in the contract pipeline, adopted a supplemental or bonus commission structure, which may result in these projects yielding effective overall commission rates that exceed the statutory limitation. We also expect to enter into other projects with similar commission structures in the future. As a result, if any relevant authority promulgates new interpretations or implementation rules whereby we are determined by such authority to be in violation of the statutory limitation on sales agency commission rates, we may be subject to administrative fines and other penalties, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Our net revenue is concentrated in the market of Beijing Region. Any significant downturn in the real estate market of Beijing Region will materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 74.6%, 71.7% and 53.8% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, from Beijing Region, and expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue in this area in the future. As a result, any decrease in transaction activities or average selling prices in the real estate market of Beijing Region, or any adverse development in the primary real estate services industry in Beijing Region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonality in the real estate market could adversely affect our results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. The primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services revenue and transaction volumes have generally been low during January and February as a result of the relatively low level of property market activities during the winter and the Chinese New Year holiday period. This could also adversely affect our operating cash flows in the first fiscal quarter. However, many of our expenses, such as those relating to administrative or sales and marketing efforts, are fixed and cannot be reduced during a seasonal slowdown. As a result, our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations are likely to continue and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. If our operating results for any quarterly period fall below investor expectations or the estimates of securities research analysts, the trading price of our ADSs may decline. Our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate due to the project-by-project nature of our primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services and billing cycles. We derived substantially all of our revenue from primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Our developer clients generally engage us on a project-by-project basis, and we currently do not have long-term services agreements with any of 10 Table of Contents our developer clients. Historically, we generated our revenue through providing services to a limited number of property projects. For example, in 2009, 2010 and 2011, we generated net revenue through providing primary real estate sales agency services to 68, 98 and 204 projects, respectively. During the three years ended December 31, 2011, the Guo’ao Project had significantly affected our operating results in a number of aspects. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, net revenue derived from the Guo’ao Project accounted for approximately 35.1%, 16.7% and 16.6%, respectively, of our total net revenue. The Guo’ao Project was our single largest project in terms of revenue contribution during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Our historical effective commission rate has been positively affected by the Guo’ao Project. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, our effective commission rate was 1.4%, 1.2% and 1.0%, respectively. Excluding the Guo’ao Project, our effective commission rates would have been 1.0%, 1.0% and 0.8% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, our overall gross margins in these periods were also affected by the Guo’ao Project. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, our gross margin was 69.7%, 68.6% and 48.4%, respectively. Excluding the impact of the Guo’ao Project, our gross margin would have been 63.0%, 67.2% and 39.4% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. See “Item 5.A.—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Specific Factors Affecting Our Financial Condition and Operating Results—Changes in commission rates” for a detailed discussion of the commission rates of the Guo’ao Project.” As of December 31, 2011, 7,143 square meters of aggregate saleable gross floor area of the Guo’ao Project had not been sold yet. As the project comes to a conclusion, we expect that we will no longer benefit from the higher commission rates and gross margins from this project in future periods. All of these factors contributed, and are expected to continue to contribute, to the fluctuations in our period-to-period operating results. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements on a continual basis, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, the time lag between the time we recognize revenue and the time we collect the related commissions, which generally lasts three to six months, could make it difficult for us to forecast cash flows and could increase the likelihood and the magnitude of period-to-period fluctuations. Competition in the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry is intense. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market position, growth prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We encounter intense competition in our primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services businesses. Competition in the industry is primarily based on scope and quality of services offered, reputation and brand recognition, local expertise and agency commission rates. We primarily compete with national players, including E-house (China) Holdings Limited with primary markets in eastern China and based in Shanghai, and World Union Properties Consultancy Co., Limited with primary markets in southern China and based in Shenzhen, as well as local competitors in the regions in which we conduct our business. Some of these competitors may have greater resources than we do, including better client relationships in certain local areas and financial and informational resources. The limited capital resources required to enter into the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry in any given region also mean there are low entry barriers for our competitors to enter into our major markets. New and existing competitors may offer lower commission rates with wider ranges of services which could attract our existing developer clients away from us. Increased competition among primary real estate sales agency and consultancy companies could result in decreases in commission rates within the industry, increased operating costs relating to the provision of a wider range of services in order to compete effectively and higher administrative costs to attract or retain talented employees. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively and to maintain our current commission or margin levels. If we fail to compete effectively, our revenue and profitability and growth prospects will be negatively affected. In addition to our competition from traditional real estate services providers, the advent of the Internet has introduced new ways of providing real estate services, as well as new entrants and competitors in our industry. If we are not successful in developing a strategy to address the challenges and to capture the business opportunities presented by technological changes and the emergence of e-business, our market position, growth prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully execute our business development strategy, including obtaining required financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our operations in the cities where we have geographical presence. Because China is a large and diverse market, property buying trends and demands may vary significantly by region, and our experience in the markets in which we historically operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to replicate our success in the new regions we entered into. We may face intense competition from companies with greater experience and resources. Furthermore, the market we newly entered may not develop as rapidly or expansively as expected, or at all. As a result, we may not be able to generate or increase revenue in new regions we entered into while incurring substantial costs. If we are not able to successfully execute our business development strategy, our future growth, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we expect that over the next several years, a substantial portion of our financial resources will be used to finance the enhancement of the efficiency and profitability of our operations in existing markets. The availability of financial resources to us and expected cash flows from our operations significantly depends on our management’s ability to successfully execute its business plan, which 11 Table of Contents includes increasing sales, generating positive operating cash flows and obtaining additional funding to support longer term capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will obtain such financing at a reasonable cost or at all. Our inability to finance our planned capital expenditures or future expansions could materially and adversely affect our growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot manage our growth, our future revenue, profitability and other aspects of results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth since we began focusing on providing primary real estate services in the second half of 2004. Our total net revenue amounted to RMB432.7 million in 2009, RMB629.0 million in 2010 and RMB594.6 million in 2011. The number of our employees also increased significantly during this period, totaling 1,523, 2,566 and 3,855 as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We intend to continue to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our operations, which will continue to place substantial demands on our managerial, operational, financial, technological and other resources. Our planned development will also place significant demands on us to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decreases, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified sales professionals as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel or integrate new regions of coverage into our operations. We may also face other difficulties as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as any general unfavorable conditions in the real estate market or delays or denials of required approvals by relevant government authorities. As a result, our future revenue, profitability and other aspects of results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may also grow our business through acquisition of third parties. Its success will depend upon our ability to identify suitable targets, to negotiate with acquisition targets on favorable terms, and to finance and complete these transactions. We also need to effectively integrate newly-acquired businesses into our existing operations, which may involve complex operational and personnel-related challenges, including rectifying possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, maintaining important business relationships, overcoming local cultural differences, and controlling unanticipated expenses related to such integration. We may also incur material costs relating to such integration. A prolonged diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties we encounter in connection with the integration of any business that we have acquired or may acquire in the future could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions. Compensation for our employees have increased in recent years and may continue to increase at a higher rate in the future, making us potentially less competitive and less profitable. In recent years, compensation in the primary real estate services industry in China has increased and may continue to increase in the future. In order to attract and retain skilled personnel, we may need to continue to increase the level of compensation of our employees. Compensation may also increase as inflationary pressure increases in China. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for a specific employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers must be compensated for three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. This mandated paid-vacation regulation, coupled with the trend of increasing compensation, may result in increases in our staff-related costs and expenses and decreases in our profit margins. We rely on our information technology systems to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness, and any disruption to them could harm our business operations. Any failure to upgrade or replace our current systems or introduce new systems could also adversely affect our market competitiveness. Our business depends upon the use of information technology systems, including our WBS system and our CRM system. See “Item 4.B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Our Information Technology Systems.” We rely significantly on our in-house information technology team with support from third-party IT outsourcing firms, to develop, maintain and regularly upgrade our information technology systems. In addition, some operations of these systems depend upon third party technologies, systems and services. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to the products or services provided by our third party providers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to effectively retain our key personnel for the maintenance and management of our information technology systems. In addition, we plan to refine, enhance and upgrade our information technology systems on an ongoing basis, and continue to introduce new advanced technologies and systems. We may not be able to upgrade or replace our existing information technology systems or introduce new information technology systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner, which may in turn adversely affect our market competitiveness. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (i) natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism, (ii) power losses, computer system failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events and (iii) computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or 12 Table of Contents misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security. While we maintain certain disaster recovery capabilities for critical functions in most of our businesses, these capabilities may not successfully prevent a disruption to or a material adverse effect on our businesses or operations in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. We may be required to take additional steps to strengthen the safety and reliability of our information technology systems, which may be costly and could result in an increase in our operating costs and a decrease in our operating margin. Any extended interruption in our information technology systems could significantly reduce our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. Additionally, we do not carry business interruption insurance for any losses that may occur. Any failure to protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that the brand name, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights owned or used by us are important to our success. Any unauthorized use of such intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect these intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application and enforcement of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks. If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property rights that we own or use, we may lose these rights and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our continuing reliance on our key information technology systems, our WBS system and our CRM system, which we developed in-house with the assistance of third-party outsourcing firms, depends in large part on retaining our proprietary rights to these systems. We have also imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, and have restricted the use of that proprietary information other than for our benefit. If any of our sales professionals, other employees or any third party misappropriates our information technology systems, databases or other proprietary information, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If the value of our brand or image diminishes, it could have a material adverse effect on our market competitiveness and growth prospects. Our brand “SYSWIN” is integral to our sales and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy client needs by further developing and maintaining the quality of our services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to satisfy client needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, the volume of our business may decline, which could in turn adversely affect the value of our brand, our market competitiveness and growth prospects. Substantial defaults by our clients on accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity position. We typically confirm our commission bills with our developer clients pursuant to a pre-agreed condition based on their progress in receiving the property purchase payment made by property buyers or commercial banks. There is generally a lag, which lasts three to six months, between the time we recognize revenue and the time we bill our developer clients for the related commissions. Our accounts receivable amounted to RMB238.5 million, RMB281.4 million and RMB366.1 million as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We seek to collect our accounts receivable within six months; however, as the conditions of real estate market worsened in 2011 due to the PRC government’s policies to curb the rise of housing prices, our developer clients generally delayed their payment of our commission due to a slow-down of their receipt of the purchase prices from home purchasers for properties sold, which resulted in an increase in the turnover days of our account receivables. The turnover days of our accounts receivable totaled 146 days, 151 days and 199 days in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Turnover days of our accounts receivable for a given period equals average accounts receivable divided by total net revenue and then multiplied by the number of days during the period. Average accounts receivable equals the arithmetic mean of the beginning and ending balances of accounts receivable during the period. If any of our developer clients with significant outstanding accounts receivable balances were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to make payments in a timely manner, or at all, we would have to make further provisions against such accounts receivable, or write off the relevant amounts, either of which could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity position. Our contract pipeline may not be indicative of our future results of operations. Our contract pipeline as of a specified date represents the aggregate gross floor area of the properties for which we have been engaged to provide sales agency services but have not yet recognized revenue as of such date based on the respective agency agreements. In this Annual Report, we have provided information regarding our contract pipeline. However, this information may not be indicative of future operating results. Under some of our agency agreements, our clients have the right to terminate or cancel the agreements. Some of our clients have the right to modify, terminate or cancel the agreements for defaults committed by us. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any material modifications, terminations or cancellations of our agreements by our clients, which would have a material adverse effect on our businesses 13 Table of Contents and results of operations. In addition, in cases where we meet the requirements for collecting commissions, particularly supplemental and bonus commissions, our clients may fail to pay these commissions as agreed, or seek to re-negotiate the commissions to lower amounts. There also can be no assurance that the projects with respect to which we agreed to provide sales agency services will be constructed and developed without any significant delay or other issues due to reasons beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to provide services to the projects which are reflected in our contract pipeline information in a timely manner, or at all, or that our provision of sales agency services to such projects will result in any profit. In addition, projects may remain in our contract pipeline for an extended period of time. As a result, investors are cautioned not to rely on our contract pipeline information presented in this Annual Report as an indicator of our future performance or prospects. The loss of any members of our senior management team, or any failure to recruit, train and retain key sales professionals and other employees, could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends on the continued service of our key executive officers, particularly Mr. Chen. We also significantly rely on other members of our senior management team for our business operations. Our ability to retain our management team is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation packages we offer, the competitive position of our company and our ability to maintain a cohesive company culture. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers or other senior management members, we cannot assure you that we will be able to appoint or integrate adequate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner, or at all. The loss of the services of any such personnel could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. If any of such personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, key sales professionals and employees. In addition, we rely on our team of key sales professionals and other employees to manage our operations and interact with our clients on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified sales professionals and other employees who have experience in primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services. In some cities in China where we have operations or other cities into which we intend to expand, the supply of qualified sales professionals could be limited. We need to hire and train qualified sales professionals and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our sales professionals and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our requirement for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn, may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. In addition, any prolonged downturn in the real estate market and any cost-cutting measures we implement could result in significant attrition among our current sales professionals and other employees. Any of the foregoing adverse developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by Mr. Chen. Mr. Chen, our chief executive officer, president and director, beneficially owns approximately 58.41% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2012. Accordingly, Mr. Chen has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition to his ownership, Mr. Chen is key to our operations as a founder. Accordingly, he has significant influence over our key decisions. This concentration of ownership and influence over our decision-making may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including those who purchased our ADSs in our initial public offering. If we fail to obtain or renew licenses and permits applicable to primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations, we are subject to numerous national, regional and local laws and regulations specific to the services we perform. If we fail to obtain or maintain the licenses and permits for conducting our primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services businesses required by law, the relevant governmental authorities may order us, or our relevant operating entities or branches offices, to suspend the related operations or impose upon us fines or other penalties. For example, currently, nine subsidiaries of our consolidated entity, namely, Qingdao Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Qingdao Syswin, Guiyang Syswin Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Guiyang Syswin, Yinchuan Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Yinchuan Syswin, Shaanxi Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Shaanxi Syswin, Hefei Syswin Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Hefei Syswin, Changsha Syswin Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Changsha Syswin, Wuhan Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Wuhan Syswin, Wuxi Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Wuxi Syswin and the Zhongshan Branch of Shenzhen Syswin Xing Ye Real Estate Brokerage Co. Ltd., or Shenzhen Syswin Zhongshan Branch, are not registered with their respective local regulatory authorities to conduct real estate sales agency and consultancy services businesses. We are in the process of obtaining the relevant registrations with local regulatory authorities for Guiyang Syswin, Yinchuan Syswin, Shaanxi Syswin, Hefei Syswin, Changsha Syswin, Wuhan Syswin, Wuxi Syswin and Shenzhen Syswin Zhongshan Branch. In addition, pursuant to our verbal consultation with the local real estate regulatory authority in Qingdao, Qingdao Syswin is not required to register with the regulatory authority in Qingdao to conduct real estate sales agency and consultancy services in 14 Table of Contents Qingdao. However, our understanding of these implementation practices adopted by local real estate regulatory authorities for the registration and licensing requirements is based on our verbal consultation with relevant authorities, rather than published rules, regulations or guidance. As a result, we cannot assure you that our understanding of such implementation practices is correct or such regulatory authorities will not change their implementation practices in respect of the registration and licensing process in the future. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or renew the licenses as required in a timely manner, or at all. If we fail to obtain or renew licenses and permits applicable to primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. We may not maintain sufficient insurance coverage for the risks associated with our business operations. Risks associated with our businesses and operations include but are not limited to claims for wrongful acts committed by our sales professionals, the loss of intellectual property rights or the failure of information technology systems crucial to our operations, the loss of key personnel and risks posed by natural disasters. Any of these risks may result in significant losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover any losses that we may sustain, or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our existing insurance policies on a timely basis or at all. If we incur any loss not covered by our insurance policies, or the compensated amount is significantly less than our actual loss or is not timely paid, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to litigation arising in connection with our sale of properties, and adverse litigation results may harm our reputation and results of operations. As a licensed real estate services provider, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory obligations not to sell properties that fail to meet the statutory sales conditions or provide false statements on the conditions of any property in any advertisement. We must present potential buyers with relevant sales permits of the properties and the related letter of authorization. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased the properties from us, which in turn could harm our reputation and results of operations. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirements that a majority of an issuer’s board of directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of its board members be independent. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to, and we currently, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors. Since a majority of our board of directors does not consist of independent directors as long as we rely on the foreign private issuer exemption, fewer board members will be exercising independent judgment and the level of board oversight on the management of our company may decrease as a result. When preparing our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we noted one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results may be impaired, which could adversely impact investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs. In our initial public offering prospectus filed with the SEC on November 24, 2010 and our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on May 3, 2011, we disclosed that our management and our independent registered public accounting firm had reported to our board of directors that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Management and our independent registered public accounting firm, as part of their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, have performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 in accordance with Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules as promulgated by the SEC and reported to our board of directors a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal controls as of December 31, 2011. The material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting related to a lack of sufficient personnel with appropriate levels of accounting knowledge and experience to address complex U.S. GAAP accounting issues and to prepare and review financial statements and related disclosures under U.S. GAAP. Specifically, our controls did not operate effectively to ensure the appropriate and timely analysis of and accounting for unusual and non-routine transactions and certain financial statement accounts, including, but not limited to, business combination and goodwill impairment assessment. As of December 31, 2011, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act, which were designed to provide reasonable assurance that material information relating to us and our consolidated subsidiaries is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported 15 Table of Contents within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective mainly because of the material weakness described above. In response to the material weakness described above, we have taken several measures designed to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and we plan to continue to implement additional remedial measures. However, our independent registered public accounting firm has not evaluated the effectiveness of the measures we have taken to improve our internal control over financial reporting since such material weakness was noted. Moreover, the measures we intend to take in the future may not be sufficient to remediate the material weakness noted by our management and our independent registered public accounting firm and to avoid potential future material weaknesses. See “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments—Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” and “Item 15 Controls and Procedures.” We may require more resources and incur more costs than currently expected to remediate our identified material weakness or any additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If the material weakness is not remedied or recurs, or if we identify additional weaknesses or fail to timely and successfully implement new or improved controls, our ability to assure timely and accurate financial reporting may be adversely affected, we may be required to restate our financial statements, and we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders, or otherwise harm our reputation. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our PRC businesses do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in businesses involved in primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to restructure our operations. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted through both our operating subsidiary in China and through our contractual arrangements with Syswin Xing Ye, our consolidated entity, and its shareholders in China. The applicable PRC regulations currently restrict foreign investment of companies that engage in primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services businesses. For a description of these regulations, see “Item 4.A. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulations—Restrictions on Foreign Investment in Real Estate Sales Agency and Consultancy Businesses.” Due to such restrictions, we conduct our real estate sales agency and consultancy businesses through Syswin Xing Ye, our consolidated entity. Syswin Xing Ye and its subsidiaries, other than Qingdao Syswin, Guiyang Syswin, Yinchuan Syswin, Shaanxi Syswin, Hefei Syswin, Changsha Syswin, Wuhan Syswin, Wuxi Syswin and Shenzhen Syswin Zhongshan Branch, have obtained all necessary licenses and permits from the PRC government to engage in real estate sales agency and consultancy services businesses. Qingdao Syswin, Guiyang Syswin, Yinchuan Syswin, Shaanxi Syswin, Hefei Syswin, Changsha Syswin, Wuhan Syswin, Wuxi Syswin and Shenzhen Syswin Zhongshan Branch currently are not registered with the local regulatory authorities to conduct real estate agency and consultancy services. See “Risk Factor—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—If we fail to obtain or renew licenses and permits applicable to primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions.” The business scope of our PRC subsidiary, Syswin Zhi Di, as prescribed in its business license issued by the PRC government, includes software development, information technology management support, computer system services, data analysis, application software services, intellectual property services, enterprise management services, and economic information services. As part of our contractual arrangements with Syswin Xing Ye, Syswin Zhi Di provides technology, marketing and general management consultation services to Syswin Xing Ye. While such consultation services are within Syswin Zhi Di’s business scope, because the services from Syswin Zhi Di to Syswin Xing Ye are provided in connection with real estate sales agency and consultancy services, we cannot assure you that these services will not themselves be deemed as real estate sales agency and consultancy services, or that Syswin Zhi Di is not in violation of PRC law for providing such services. For more details on how the services provided by Syswin Zhi Di correspond to the business scope under its license, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Exclusive technology consulting and service agreements.” We have entered into contractual arrangements with our consolidated entity and its shareholders, which are designed to enable us to, among other things, exercise effective control over, and derive substantially all of the economic benefits from, the entity and its subsidiaries. See “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” If any of us, our subsidiaries, our consolidated entity and its subsidiaries is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with these violations, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC operating subsidiary or our consolidated entity and its subsidiaries; 16 Table of Contents · confiscating relevant income and imposing fines and other penalties; · discontinuing or restricting the business and operations of our PRC operating subsidiary or our consolidated entity and its subsidiaries; · requiring us or our PRC operating subsidiary or our consolidated entity and its subsidiaries to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our initial public offering to finance our businesses and operations in China; or · imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC operating subsidiary or our consolidated entity and its respective subsidiaries may not be able to comply. The imposition of any of these penalties would materially impair our ability to conduct our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to investments from foreign investors in the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy industry lack detailed implementing rules and operational procedures, and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. In addition, most of these regulations have not been interpreted by the relevant authorities in circumstances similar to our corporate structure. Accordingly, uncertainties exist on how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted and the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated entity and its shareholders for our operations in China, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with Syswin Xing Ye, our consolidated entity, and its shareholders to operate our primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our consolidated entity and its subsidiaries as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of these entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of directors of these entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level for these entities. Any failure by our consolidated entity or its shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If our consolidated entity or its shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under our contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce these arrangements, and rely on legal remedies available under applicable PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages. In particular, if shareholders of the consolidated entity were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in such consolidated entity to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option to the extent permitted under the PRC laws pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to take a legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in China. The legal environment in China is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entity and we may be precluded from operating our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the applicable PRC authorities invalidate these contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws and regulations, the consolidated entity or its shareholders terminate the contractual arrangements or the consolidated entity or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, our business operations in China would be materially disrupted, and the value of our ADSs could decrease substantially. Furthermore, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration and the relevant foreign investment restrictions remain effective, we would not be able to continue our business operations. In addition, if the consolidated entity or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the consolidated entity undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially harm our business and our ability to generate revenue and cause the market price of our ADSs to decline significantly. 17 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated entity may have potential conflicts of interest with us. Mr. Chen, one of the beneficial owners of our consolidated entity, is also a director of our consolidated entity as well as our company. Conflicts of interest between his different roles may arise. In addition, Mr. Chen’s and Mr. Hongbing Tao’s equity interests in our company have been diluted as a result of our initial public offering, and may be further diluted in the case of any additional equity issuance, hence heightening the potential of conflicts of interest. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, shareholders of our consolidated entity will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause the consolidated entity that they beneficially own to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control the consolidated entity and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interests or disputes between us and any of the shareholders of the consolidated entity, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, and may have to incur substantial costs and resources to seek legal remedies including specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages the outcome of which is uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. Mr. Chen is crucial to our operations, and any conflict with him could result in loss of our key management. Contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiary, our consolidated entity and its shareholders may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that any of our subsidiary or consolidated entity owes additional taxes could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We cannot assure you that each of our transactions with our consolidated entity and its shareholders will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm’s-length transactions. The relevant tax authorities may determine that our contractual relationships with our consolidated entity and its shareholders were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that any of the transactions entered into among our subsidiaries, our consolidated entity, and its shareholders are not on an arm’s length basis, or result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, the PRC tax authorities may adjust the income, expenses, profits and losses of such consolidated entities, which could in turn increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties for underpaid taxes. Our net income may be adversely and materially affected if the tax liabilities of any of our subsidiaries and our consolidated entity increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate sector is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects depend to a significant degree on economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government has implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, which had the effect of slowing the growth of credit availability. In 2008 and 2009, in response to the global financial crisis, the PRC government loosened such requirements. However, in order to cool down the overheating property market and address the increasing inflation concerns, in 2010 and 2011, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and the benchmark deposit and lending interest rates, to control the growth of the PRC economy. Since late 2011, the PRC government has begun to loosen restrictions on lending by reducing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio. Any future actions and policies adopted by the PRC government could materially affect the Chinese economy and slow the growth of the real estate market in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike under common law systems, decided legal cases have little value as precedents in subsequent legal proceedings. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, and forms of foreign investment (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint ventures) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are often changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. We cannot predict the effects of future developments in the PRC legal system. We may be required in the future to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our existing and future operations, which may not be obtainable in a timely fashion or at all. An inability to obtain such permits or authorizations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Unmerited legal actions or threats by our employees, consultants or other associates in an attempt to extract payments or benefits from us could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. In recent years, as the number of overseas listed companies based in China has increased, there has been an increasing number of unmerited legal actions and threats by current and former employees, consultants or other associates of these companies in an attempt to extract payments or benefits from them. As we have become a public company upon completion of our initial public offering, we may face increasing risks of similar legal actions and threats. Although we expect to vigorously defend ourselves against any such actions if we believe they are frivolous, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in these lawsuits, or will not be subject to any material liability as a result of these actions. Furthermore, regardless of success in our legal defenses, these legal actions and the threats of these actions would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. Our reputation and business operations may also be harmed as a result. Our holding company structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiary in China to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our PRC entities. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity by our subsidiary in China for our cash requirements, including for the service of any debt we may incur. Our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends is based upon their distributable earnings, which are mainly derived from the service fees from Syswin Xing Ye. We do not hold any equity interest in, but are deemed as primary beneficiary of, Syswin Xing Ye as a result of our contractual arrangements. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiary to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiary in China and Syswin Xing Ye are required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. Under PRC law, our subsidiary in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. Such subsidiary is also required to further set aside a portion of its after-tax profits to fund the employee welfare fund, although the amount to be set aside, if any, is determined at the discretion of its board of directors. Our PRC subsidiary, Syswin Zhi Di, was established in July 2010, and has not set aside any amount for such statutory reserve. As a result, any future dividend or distribution that Syswin Zhi Di may declare or make is subject to such statutory reserve requirement until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital of RMB289.6 million as well as any employee welfare fund contributions made at the discretion of its board of directors. Syswin Xing Ye is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits to fund a statutory reserve and employee welfare fund and enterprise expansion fund at the discretion of its board of directors. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Syswin Xing Ye set aside RMB12.6 million, RMB15.1 million and RMB6.0 million statutory reserve in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Furthermore, if our subsidiary in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiary to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investments in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our subsidiary in China. Any fund we transfer to our PRC subsidiary, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to approval by or registration with relevant governmental authorities in China. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary is subject to the approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. Such authority is required to conclude its approval process on capital contribution within 30 days. In addition, any foreign loan procured by our subsidiaries or consolidated entities in the PRC is required to be registered with SAFE or its local branches. There is no statutory requirement in the PRC for SAFE or its local branches to complete such registration process within certain time period. The PRC government does not charge any fee for any of the foregoing approvals and registrations process. We may not obtain these government approvals or complete such registrations on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions or foreign loans by us to our subsidiary. If we fail to receive such approvals or complete such registration, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenue effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. During the three years ended December 31, 2011, all of our revenue was in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company may rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior 19 Table of Contents approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiary is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. Approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Although these regulatory requirements are administrative formalities and free of charge, the time required to complete the required procedures may vary significantly based on the circumstances of each case. This could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiary to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to convert and transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to our consolidated entity, which may adversely affect the business expansion of our consolidated entity, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies or establish other consolidated entities in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may be used to repay Renminbi loans. Violations of Circular 142 could result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As Circular 142 prohibits foreign-invested company to make equity investment with its foreign currency-denominated capital, we have been thus far, and may be in the future, unable to make equity contributions to Syswin Xing Ye or to establish new subsidiaries through Syswin Zhi Di in China. Circular 142 requires a foreign-invested company to apply with a commercial bank regarding the conversion of foreign currencies into Renminbi. The commercial bank is required to review documents submitted by the foreign-invested company to verify that the usage of the converted Renminbi is within the business scope as prescribed in the business license of the applicant. Once the usage is verified by the commercial bank, the foreign exchange may be converted into Renminbi. No approval by any governmental authority in the PRC is required for such currency conversion. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering, including the net proceeds we have transferred to Syswin Zhi Di, to Syswin Xing Ye, our consolidated entity, through our subsidiary in China. This in turn may adversely affect the business expansion of our consolidated entity as we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other consolidated entities in the PRC. We expect that the PRC regulations of loans and direct investments by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may continue to limit our use of proceeds of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future plans to use the U.S. dollar proceeds we receive from our initial public offering for our expansion and operations in China. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. The audit report included in this Annual Report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the Renminbi traded stably within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the Renminbi has started to slowly appreciate further against the U.S. dollar. See “Exchange Rate Information.” There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies. As our costs and expenses are mostly denominated in RMB, a resumption of the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries and consolidated entities in China receive revenues in RMB, any significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or 20 Table of Contents for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. These and other effects on our financial data resulting from fluctuations in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and your investment. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC Shareholders. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The implementing rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China, which include all of the following conditions: (1) the location where senior management members responsible for an enterprise’s daily operations discharge their duties; (2) the location where financial and human resource decisions are made or approved by organizations or persons; (3) the location where the major assets and corporate documents are kept; and (4) the location where more than half (inclusive) of all directors with voting rights or senior management have their habitual residence. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by the PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups or individuals or by foreign individuals. We do not believe our Company or our overseas subsidiary meets all of the four conditions above, thus we do not currently consider our Company or our overseas subsidiary to be a PRC “resident enterprise”. However, if we were considered as a PRC “resident enterprise,” we would be subject to a PRC enterprise income tax on our worldwide income at a tax rate of 25%. In addition, although under the New EIT Law and its Implementation Regulations dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempted from enterprise income tax, it is unclear whether the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and would therefore qualify for tax exemption, because the definition of qualified resident enterprises is unclear and the PRC tax authorities and foreign exchange control authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. In addition, under the New EIT Law and its implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC withholding tax is applicable, unless otherwise reduced or exempted by relevant tax treaties, to dividends paid by a PRC resident enterprise to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but the dividends are not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares of a PRC resident enterprise by such investors is also subject to PRC tax, at a rate of 10% unless otherwise reduced or exempted by relevant tax treaties, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, it is unclear whether dividends paid on our ordinary shares or ADSs, or any gain realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC taxation. It is also unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. If dividends payable to our non-PRC investors, or gains from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by such investors are subject to PRC tax, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. China has regulations that subject our PRC subsidiary to additional restrictions if we have beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents that have not properly filed with authorities in China. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulations—Foreign Exchange Regulations on Special Purpose Vehicles.” The beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents have completed the initial registration as required by the relevant regulations of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and have duly amended such registrations to reflect the changes to the information included in the initial registration. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders subject to the SAFE regulations and any PRC resident who becomes our beneficial owner in the future will be able to comply with the SAFE regulations in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the registration procedures may subject such PRC resident beneficial owners to certain fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment and financing activities, or limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign 21 Table of Contents exchange-denominated loans. As it remains uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. We face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a foreign investor transfers its direct equity interest in a PRC subsidiary, or a Direct Transfer, gains derived from such Direct Transfer will be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. For instance, if our Hong Kong subsidiary, SYSWIN Limited disposes any transfers or disposes of the equity interest in our PRC subsidiary, Syswin Zhi Di, it would constitute a Direct Transfer. It further provides that where a foreign investor or entity is the controlling shareholder of a PRC resident enterprise and transfers its indirect equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by disposing of its equity interests in an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor or entity must report to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. The documents for reporting are: · equity transfer contract/agreement; · documents illustrating the relationship between the Non-PRC Resident Enterprises investor and the overseas intermediary holding company being transferred in respect of financing, operation, sales and purchase, etc.; · documents illustrating the operation, personnel, finance and properties of the overseas intermediary holding company being transferred; · documents illustrating the relationship between the overseas intermediary holding company being transferred and the PRC resident enterprise in respect of financing, operation, sales and purchase, etc.; · documents illustrating the reasonable commercial purpose of the Non-PRC Resident Enterprises investor in setting up the overseas intermediary holding company being transferred; and · other relevant documents required by the tax authority. The PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding PRC tax. We may from time to time dispose or transfer the equity interest in our offshore subsidiaries holding equity interest in PRC resident enterprises. In particular, if we transfer or dispose of the equity interest in our Hong Kong subsidiary, SYSWIN Limited, which in turn holds equity interest in our PRC subsidiary, Syswin Zhi Di, such transfer or disposal may be deemed as an Indirect Transfer. Gains derived from any Direct Transfer or Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. As a result of the foregoing, if we engage in any Direct Transfer or Indirect Transfer, we may be subject to a PRC withholding tax under Circular 698. If we choose to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, we may be required to allocate significant resources towards such efforts, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Foreign ownership of real estate sales agency and consultancy businesses in China is restricted under recent PRC regulations. This may limit our ability to establish new subsidiaries in China to engage in real estate sales agency and consultancy businesses in the future. On December 24, 2011, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission of China and the Ministry of Commerce of China jointly promulgated the amended Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, or the Catalogue, which came into effect on January 30, 2012. According to the Catalogue, real estate sales agency and consultancy companies are classified to be in the restricted category of foreign investment industries. It may be difficult or take a long time for us to obtain any approvals from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to establish any subsidiary in China to engage in real estate sales agency and consultancy businesses in the future. We cannot assure you that, if we are required to seek such approvals in the future, we will be able to obtain them from the Ministry of Commerce or its local 22 Table of Contents branch on a timely basis, or at all. The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Labor Contract Law, and its Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Implementation Regulation, have been enforced for only a short time, substantial uncertainty remains as to its potential impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulations—Labor Contract Law.” The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation may increase our operating expenses, in particular our human resources costs and our administrative expenses. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce the number of our sales professionals, the Labor Contract Law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with our overseas listing, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, i.e., the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOC, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or the SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which came into effect on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of an overseas listing of a PRC company obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. However, substantial uncertainty remains regarding the scope and applicability of the M&A Rules to offshore special purpose vehicles. The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our New York Stock Exchange listing and our corporate structure for our New York Stock Exchange listing established under contractual arrangements remains unclear. In particular, with respect to our New York Stock Exchange listing, it is unclear whether the contractual arrangements within our corporate structure will be deemed as an acquisition under the M&A Rules. The relevant PRC authorities, which jointly promulgated the M&A Rules, have not given any instruction, explanation or implementation guidance in this respect even after various companies using contractual arrangement structures have successfully been listed on overseas stock exchanges. Our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, advised us that we were not required to apply to the relevant PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, for approval of our New York Stock Exchange listing or our current corporate structure. However, we cannot assure you that relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. Since we did not obtain the required prior approval, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, including limiting our operating privileges in China, delaying or restricting the injection of proceeds from a securities offering into China, restricting or prohibiting payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or taking other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. An occurrence of a widespread health epidemic or other outbreaks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1, or the H1N1 virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, avian influenza or other epidemics or outbreaks on the economic and business climate. A prolonged outbreak of any of these illnesses or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the world could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Such outbreaks could significantly impact the real estate market and cause a temporary closure of the facilities we use for our operations. Such impact or closures would severely disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted if any of our sales professionals, other employees or our clients were suspected of having the H1N1 virus, SARS or avian influenza, since this could require us to quarantine some or all of our employees or disinfect the facilities we use for our operations and may deter our clients or potential clients from visiting the relevant facilities. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that an outbreak harms the global or Chinese economy in general. Risks Related to Our ADSs We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities or incurrence of additional indebtedness could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. Historically, we have relied principally on our operational sources of cash, as well as external sources of financing to fund our operations and 23 Table of Contents capital expansion needs. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity, equity-linked or debt securities or enter into a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2012, we had 193,275,000 ordinary shares outstanding, all of which have become available for sale as the applicable lock-up period relating to our initial public offering expired on May 23, 2010, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1993, as amended, or U.S. Securities Act. Of the 193,275,000 shares, Mr. Chen and China Rebro Limited, our two largest shareholders, held 142,772,468 shares as of March 31, 2012. To the extent a substantial number of ordinary shares are sold into the market, particularly by our two largest shareholders, or the market perceives that such sale could occur, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act, subject to any applicable lock-up agreements described above. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market in the United States could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. See “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions— Registration Rights Agreement with CDH Investments.” The voting rights of holders of ADSs must be exercised in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, and the procedures established by the depositary. The process of voting through the depositary may involve delays that limit the time available to you to consider proposed shareholders’ actions and also may restrict your ability to subsequently revise your voting instructions. A holder of ADSs may exercise its voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. When the depositary receives from us notice of any shareholders meeting, it will distribute the information in the meeting notice and any proxy solicitation materials to you. The depositary will determine the record date for distributing these materials, and only ADS holders registered with the depositary on that record date will, subject to applicable laws, be entitled to instruct the depositary to vote the underlying ordinary shares. The depositary will also determine and inform you of the manner for you to give your voting instructions, including instructions to give discretionary proxies to a person designated by us. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting for you to withdraw your ordinary shares and cast your vote with respect to any proposed resolution, as a holder of our ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send materials relating to the meeting and voting instruction forms to you, or to carry out your voting instructions, in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. The additional time required for the depositary to receive from us and distribute to you meeting notices and materials, and for you to give voting instructions to the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares, will result in your having less time to consider meeting notices and materials than holders of ordinary shares who receive such notices and materials directly from us and who vote their ordinary shares directly. If you have given your voting instructions to the depositary and subsequently decide to change those instructions, you may not be able to do so in time for the depositary to vote in accordance with your revised instructions. The depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. In the event that voting on any resolution or matter is conducted on a show of hands basis in accordance with our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association, the depositary will refrain from voting and the voting instructions (or the deemed voting instructions, as set out in the deposit agreement) received by the depositary from you will lapse. The depositary will have no obligation to demand voting on a poll basis with respect to any resolution and will have no liability to any holder of ADS for not having demanded voting on a poll basis. In addition, the depositary will, if so requested in writing by us, represent all the ordinary shares (whether or not voting instructions have been received in respect of such ordinary shares from you as of the record date) for the purpose of establishing quorum at a meeting of shareholders. Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, do not timely vote, or voting instructions received fail to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote ordinary shares underlying your ADSs unless we notify the depositary that: · we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; 24 Table of Contents · we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or · we think the subject of the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that, absent the situations described above, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs evidenced by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems doing so expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holder of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares such holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if it decides that it is unlawful to make such distribution. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consisted of securities that required registration under the U.S. Securities Act but that were not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or unreasonable from a regulatory perspective for us to make them available to such holders. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our subsidiary in China. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a United States court if you believe that we or our directors or officers have infringed your rights under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States. However, the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2011 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly 25 Table of Contents established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited to direct shareholder lawsuits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse tax consequences. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. While not free from doubt, we do not believe we have been a PFIC in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. However, based on our current balance sheet and market capitalization, the likelihood that we would become a PFIC in 2012 has increased as compared to 2011. In addition, if we are not treated as owning the stock of the consolidated entities for the purpose of determining whether we are a PFIC, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and subsequent taxable years. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—10.E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds such ADSs or ordinary shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information see “Item 10. Additional Information—10.E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Tax Considerations.” Our amended and restated articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the New York Stock Exchange may delist our ADSs. Our ADSs are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On January 18, 2012, the New York Stock Exchange has notified us that our company has fallen below the New York Stock Exchange’s continued listing standard that requires a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over 30 consecutive trading days. In accordance with applicable rules in Sections 801 and 802 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, our company has six months from the date of its receipt of the New York Stock Exchange notice to regain compliance with the minimum share price rule. We have notified the New York Stock Exchange our intention to cure this deficiency within the prescribed timeframe. Our security will continue to be listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, subject to compliance with other New York Stock Exchange continued listing standards. We are currently in compliance with all other New York Stock Exchange continued listing standards. However, if we are unable to regain compliance with the minimum share price within the prescribed timeframe or maintain compliance with other New York Stock Exchange criteria for continued listing, our ADSs would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our ADSs could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our ADSs; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our ADSs, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. See “Item 9. The Offer and 26 Table of Contents Listing — Offer and Listing Details — The New York Stock Exchange Continued Listing Standards”. 