Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors address the material risks concerning our business. If any of the risks discussed in this report were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operation and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected and the market price per share of our common stock could decline significantly. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy includes achieving revenue and net income growth from anticipated increases in demand for hotel rooms — any setback in the economic recovery will adversely affect our future results of operations and our growth prospects. Our hotel properties experienced declining operating performance across various U.S. markets during the recent economic recession. Our business strategy includes achieving continued revenue and net income growth from anticipated improvement in demand for hotel rooms as the economic recovery continues. We, however, cannot provide any assurances that demand for hotel rooms will increase from current levels, or the time or extent of any demand growth that we do experience. If demand does not continue to increase as the economy recovers, or if there is a setback in the economic recovery resulting in weakening demand, our operating results and growth prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, any delay in the continued economic recovery or new economic downturn will adversely affect our future results of operations and our growth prospects. We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business. Our growth strategy includes the disciplined acquisition of hotels as opportunities arise. Our ability to acquire hotels on satisfactory terms or at all is subject to the following significant risks: ● we may be unable to acquire, or may be forced to acquire at significantly higher prices, desired hotels because of competition from other real estate investors with more capital, including other real estate operating companies, REITs and investment funds; ● we may be unable to obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, financing may not be on satisfactory terms; and ● agreements for the acquisition of hotels are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate. If we cannot complete hotel acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price per share of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. We may fail to successfully integrate and operate newly acquired hotels. Our ability to successfully integrate and operate newly acquired hotels is subject to the following risks: ● we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new markets that we may enter, which could result in us paying too much for hotels in new markets; ● market conditions may result in lower than expected occupancy and room rates; ● we may acquire hotels without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the hotels and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the hotels; 9 ● we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to our newly acquired hotels; and ● we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of hotels, into our existing operations. If we cannot operate acquired hotels to meet our expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price per share of our stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. The management of the hotels in our portfolio is and will continue to be concentrated in one hotel management company. As of February 27, 2012, 69 of the 71 of the hotels in our portfolio are operated by Interstate or its affiliate. This significant concentration of operational risk in one hotel management company makes us more vulnerable economically than if our hotel management was diversified with several hotel management companies. Any adverse developments in Interstate’s business and affairs, financial strength or ability to operate our hotels efficiently and effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that Interstate will satisfy its obligations to us or effectively and efficiently operate our hotel properties. The failure or inability of Interstate to satisfy its obligations to us or effectively and efficiently operate our hotel properties would materially reduce our revenue and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of our distributable cash and cause the market price per share of our capital stock to decline. We may not be able to cause our hotel management companies to operate any of our hotels in a manner satisfactory to us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, we cannot operate our hotels. Accordingly, we lease all but one of our hotels to our TRS lessees. The remaining hotel is owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of one of our TRSs. All of our hotels are operated pursuant to hotel management agreements with independent hotel management companies, each of which must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” to operate our hotels. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders are dependent on the ability of our hotel management companies to operate our hotels successfully. Any failure of our hotel management companies to provide quality services and amenities or maintain a quality brand name and reputation could have a negative effect on their ability to operate our hotels and could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot and will not control the hotel management companies that operate and are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of our hotels, including, but not limited to, the implementation of significant operating decisions. We cannot assure you that our hotel management companies will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under the management agreements or our obligations under our hotel franchise agreements, that our hotel management companies will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that they will not otherwise default on their management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, our relationships with the franchisors may be damaged and we may then be in breach of the franchise agreements, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Even if we believe a hotel is being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory operating results, we will have limited ability to require the hotel management company to change its method of operation. We generally attempt to resolve issues with our hotel management companies through discussions and negotiations. However, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution or arbitration. We would only be able to seek redress if a hotel management company violates the terms of the applicable hotel management agreement, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the hotel management agreement. Our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. 10 Termination of any of our hotel management agreements may cause us to pay substantial termination fees or to experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels. If we replace the hotel manager of any of our hotels, we may be required to pay a substantial termination fee and we may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotel. If we experience disruptions at the affected hotel, our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. Restrictive covenants and other provisions in hotel management and franchise agreements could preclude us from taking actions with respect to the sale, refinancing or rebranding of a hotel that would otherwise be in our best interest. Our hotel management agreements and franchise agreements generally contain restrictive covenants and other provisions that do not provide us with flexibility to sell, refinance or rebrand a hotel without the consent of the manager or franchisor. For example, the terms of some of these agreements may restrict our ability to sell a hotel unless the purchaser is not a competitor of the hotel management company or franchisor, assumes the related agreement and meets specified other conditions. In addition, our franchise agreements restrict our ability to rebrand particular hotels without the consent of the franchisor, which could result in significant operational disruptions and litigation if we do not obtain the consent. We could be forced to pay consent or termination fees to hotel managers or franchisors under these agreements as a condition to changing management or franchise brands of our hotels, and these fees could deter us from taking actions that would otherwise be in our best interest or could cause us to incur substantial expense. Funds spent to maintain franchisor operating standards, the loss of a franchise license or a decline in the value of a franchise brand may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Funds spent to maintain franchisor operating standards, the loss of a franchise license or a decline in the value of a franchise brand may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our hotels operate under franchise agreements, and the maintenance of franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. We expect that franchisors will periodically inspect our hotels to ensure that we, our TRSs and our hotel management companies maintain our franchisors’ standards. Failure by us, our TRSs or our hotel management companies to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license terminates due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we could also be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which varies by franchisor and by hotel. As a condition of our continued holding of a franchise license, a franchisor could also require us to make capital improvements to our hotels, even if we do not believe the improvements are necessary or desirable or would result in an acceptable return on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital improvements. If a franchisor terminated a franchise license, we could try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. A loss of a franchise license for one or more hotels, particularly if our hotels become concentrated in a limited number of franchise brands in the future, could materially and adversely affect our revenue. This loss of revenue could, therefore, also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. Negative publicity related to one of the franchise brands or the general decline of a brand also may adversely affect the underlying value of our hotels or result in a reduction in business. 11 We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future acquisitions necessary to grow our business or meet maturing obligations. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all of our future capital needs, including capital needed to make investments and to satisfy or refinance maturing obligations. We expect to rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fund future capital needs. Part of our strategy involves the use of additional debt financing to supplement our equity capital which may include our secured credit facility and mortgage financing. Our ability to effectively implement and accomplish our business strategy will be affected by our ability to obtain and utilize additional leverage in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. However, the capital environment is often characterized by extended periods of limited availability of both debt and equity financing, increasing costs, stringent credit terms and significant volatility. We may not be able to secure first mortgage financing or increase the availability under our secured credit facility. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on satisfactory terms or at all, we may not be able to make the investments needed to expand our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our stock. We may not be in a position to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities for growth if we are unable to access the capital markets on a timely basis on favorable terms. We have a significant amount of debt, and our organizational documents have no limitation on the amount of additional indebtedness that we may incur in the future. As a result, we may become highly leveraged in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness to finance future hotel acquisitions and development activities and other corporate purposes. In addition, there are no restrictions in our charter or bylaws that limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur or restrict the form in which our indebtedness will be incurred (including recourse or non-recourse debt or cross-collateralized debt). A substantial level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition because it could, among other things: ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including to pay dividends on our common stock and our preferred stock as currently contemplated or necessary to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT; ● increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; ● limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance indebtedness on favorable terms or at all to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints; and ● place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness. Generally, our term debt carries maturity dates or call dates such that the loans become due prior to their full amortization. We have approximately $28.5 million of debt that matures prior to December 31, 2013. It may be difficult to refinance such loans on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not have sufficient borrowing capacity on our revolving credit facility to repay the maturing debt using draws on that facility for amounts that we are unable to refinance. Although we believe that we will be able to refinance these loans, or will have the capacity to repay them, if necessary, using draws under our revolving credit facility, there can be no assurance that our revolving credit facility will be available to repay such maturing debt, as draws under our credit facility are subject to borrowing base limitations and certain financial covenants. The agreements governing our indebtedness place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. The agreements governing our $125.0 million secured revolving credit facility and other indebtedness contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These covenants may restrict, among other activities, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: ● merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; 12 ● sell, transfer, pledge or encumber our stock or the ownership interests of our subsidiaries; ● incur additional debt or issue preferred stock; ● enter into, terminate or modify leases for our hotels and hotel management and franchise agreements; ● make certain expenditures, including capital expenditures; ● pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock; and ● enter into certain transactions with affiliates. These covenants could impair our ability to grow our business, take advantage of attractive business opportunities or successfully compete. Our ability to comply with financial and other covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants or covenants under any other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay or refinance the accelerated debt, the lenders could proceed against any assets pledged to secure that debt, including foreclosing on or requiring the sale of our hotels, and the proceeds from the sale of these hotels may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in any hotel subject to mortgage debt. Borrowings under our $125.0 million secured revolving credit facility are, and all of our other debt existing as of December 31, 2011 is, secured by mortgages on our hotel properties and related assets. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations increases our risk of property losses because defaults on secured indebtedness may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the hotels securing any loans for which we are in default. If we are in default under a cross-defaulted mortgage loan, we could lose multiple hotels to foreclosure. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our hotels would be treated as a sale of the hotel for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the hotel, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. We may assume or incur new mortgage indebtedness on the hotels in our portfolio or hotels that we acquire in the future. Any default under any one of our mortgage debt obligations may increase the risk of our default on our other indebtedness. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our variable rate debt and could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to variable interest rates. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest payments and reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including capital improvements to our hotels or acquisitions of additional hotels. In addition, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. Further, an increase in interest rates could increase the cost of financing, thereby decreasing the amount third parties are willing to pay for our hotels, which would limit our ability to dispose of hotels when necessary or desired. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Qualitative and Quantitative Effects of Market Risk.” Although we have not entered into any hedging arrangements, we may, from time to time, enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. However, these agreements reduce, but do not eliminate, the effect of rising interest rates, and they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. 13 We and our hotel managers rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We and our hotel managers rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, reservations, billing and operating data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited operating history as a publicly traded REIT and may not be successful in operating as a publicly traded REIT, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have limited operating history as a publicly traded REIT. The REIT rules and regulations are highly technical and complex. We cannot assure you that our management team’s experience will be sufficient to continue to successfully operate our company as a publicly traded REIT, with appropriate operating and investment policies and comply with Code or Treasury Regulations that are applicable to us. Failure to comply with the income, asset, and other requirements imposed by the REIT rules and regulations could prevent us from qualifying as a REIT, and could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our management team to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of services from any of the members of our management team, and our inability to find suitable replacements on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our operations. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by a lack of sole decision-making authority with respect to such investments. In the future we may enter into strategic joint ventures with unaffiliated investors to acquire, develop, improve or dispose of hotels, thereby reducing the amount of capital required by us to make investments and diversifying our capital sources for growth. We may not have sole decision-making authority with respect to these investments, which may: ● prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners; ● create impasses on major decisions, such as acquisitions or sales; ● prevent us from selling our interests in the joint venture without the consent of our joint venture partners; or ● subject us to liability for the actions of our joint venture partners. Joint venture investments could subject us to risks related to the financial condition of joint venture partners. If a joint venture partner becomes bankrupt or otherwise defaults on its obligations under a joint venture agreement, we and any other remaining joint venture partners would generally remain liable for the joint venture liabilities. Furthermore, if a joint venture partner becomes bankrupt or otherwise defaults on its obligations under a joint venture agreement, we may be unable to continue the joint venture other than by purchasing such joint venture partner’s interests or the underlying assets at a premium to the market price. If any of the above risks are realized, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 14 We may have disputes with joint venture partners. Disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration which could increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and could result in subjecting the hotels owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risks. Our tax protection agreements may require our operating partnership to maintain certain debt levels that otherwise would not be required to operate our business, which may impair our ability to generate cash available for distribution and otherwise not be in our stockholders’ best interests. Under the tax protection agreements entered into by our operating partnership and certain of its limited partners, including The Summit Group, in connection with our formation transactions, our operating partnership has agreed to provide those limited partners with the opportunity to guarantee debt or enter into a deficit restoration obligation, both of which are intended to cause a special allocation of liabilities to those limited partners to prevent them from recognizing a taxable deemed cash distribution. If our operating partnership fails to make those opportunities available, our operating partnership will be required to deliver to each such limited partner a cash payment intended to approximate that limited partner’s tax liability resulting from our operating partnership’s failure to make such opportunities available to them. Our operating partnership agreed to these provisions in order to assist those limited partners in avoiding a taxable deemed cash distribution that may have otherwise occurred in connection with the formation transactions. These obligations may require our operating partnership to maintain more or different indebtedness than would otherwise have been required for our business, which could result in higher interest expense than we would prefer to incur, reducing cash available for distribution to stockholders. Risks Related to the Lodging Industry Economic conditions may adversely affect the lodging industry. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in U.S. gross domestic product (“GDP”). The lodging industry is also sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in corporate budgets and consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions can lower the revenue and profitability of our assets and therefore the net operating profits of our investments. The recent economic downturn led to a significant decline in demand for products and services provided by the lodging industry, but hotel demand has experienced a steady improvement beginning in early 2010. A slowing of the current economic recovery or new economic weakness could have an adverse effect on our revenue and negatively affect our profitability. Competition from other upscale and upper midscale hotels in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The lodging industry is highly competitive. Our hotels compete with other hotels for guests in each market in which our hotels operate based on a number of factors, including location, convenience, brand affiliation, room rates, range of services and guest amenities or accommodations offered and quality of customer service. Competition will often be specific to the individual markets in which our hotels are located and includes competition from existing and new hotels. Our competitors may have an operating model that enables them to offer rooms at lower rates than we can, which could result in our competitors increasing their occupancy at our expense. Competition could adversely affect our occupancy, ADR and RevPAR, and may require us to provide additional amenities or make capital improvements that we otherwise would not have to make, which could reduce our profitability and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Our investment opportunities and growth prospects may be affected by competition for investment opportunities. We compete for investment opportunities with other entities, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us, which may limit our ability to grow. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of the owners of assets seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new hotels on attractive terms or at all. Our operating results and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the markets in which we operate. Our hotels are subject to various operating risks within the markets in which we operate. These risks include: ● over-building of hotels in our markets, which could adversely affect occupancy and revenue at the hotels we acquire; ● adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; and ● changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances. Our operating results and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the risks inherent to the ownership of hotels. Hotels have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. A typical office property owner, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. By contrast, our hotels are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; ● increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; ● increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; ● events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”), imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes and environmental disasters such as the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico; ● potential increases in labor costs at our hotels, including as a result of unionization of the labor force; and ● adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry. We have significant ongoing needs to make capital expenditures in our hotels, which require us to devote funds to these purposes and could pose related risks that might impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Our franchisors also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. In addition, lenders may require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to our assets. These capital improvements and replacements may give rise to the following risks: ● possible environmental problems; ● construction cost overruns and delays; 16 ● a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and replacements and, the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; and ● uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements and replacements have begun. If any of the above risks were to be realized, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Hotel development is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks. To the extent we develop hotels or acquire hotels that are under development, these risks may adversely affect our operating results and liquidity position. We may develop hotels or acquire hotels that are under development from time to time as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration general economic conditions. Hotel development involves a number of risks, including the following: ● possible environmental problems; ● construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; ● receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; ● development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; ● acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely affect a project; ● inability to raise capital; and ● governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project. To the extent we develop hotels or acquire hotels under development, we cannot assure you that any development project will be completed on time or within budget. Our inability to complete a project on time or within budget may adversely affect our projected operating results and our liquidity position. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Our hotel rooms are likely to be booked through Internet travel intermediaries, including, but not limited to, Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our management companies. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to the brands under which our hotels are franchised. If the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, room revenue may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to maintain comprehensive insurance on our hotels, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by owners of hotels similar to our hotels. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes and floods, or losses related to business disruption from disputes with franchisors, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the asset. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate an asset after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed hotels. 17 Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry and Real Estate-Related Investments Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels or to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, and, therefore, may harm our financial condition. In the future, we may decide to sell hotels. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to promptly sell one or more hotels in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotels for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of an asset. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: ● adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; ● changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; ● changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; ● the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures, that may require us to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before an asset can be sold; ● changes in operating expenses; and ● civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of the terrorist acts such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001. Increases in our property taxes would adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our hotels are subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as our hotels are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation over environmental, health and safety matters. Our hotels and development parcels are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose liability for contamination. Under these laws, governmental entities have the authority to require us, as the current owner of the property, to perform or pay for the clean-up of contamination (including hazardous substances, waste or petroleum products) at, on, under or emanating from the property and to pay for natural resource damage arising from contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator or other responsible party knew of, or caused the contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. Because these laws also impose liability on persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated, we could incur cleanup costs or other environmental liabilities even after we sell properties. Contamination at, on, under or emanating from our properties also may expose us to liability to private parties for costs of remediation, personal injury and death and/or property damage. In addition, environmental liens may be created on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address contamination. If contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Moreover, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, persons who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, may be liable for costs associated with cleanup of that facility. 18 In addition, our hotels (including our real property, operations and equipment) are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, the registration, maintenance and operation of our boilers and storage tanks, the supply of potable water to our guests, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, protection of natural resources, asbestos, lead-based paint, mold and mildew, and waste management. Some of our hotels also routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations, which are subject to regulation (for example, swimming pool chemicals or biological waste). Our hotels incur costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and if these regulatory requirements are not met or unforeseen events result in the discharge of dangerous or toxic substances at our hotels, we could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable laws and material liability from third parties for harm to the environment, damage to real property or personal injury and death. We are aware of no past or present environmental liability for non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Certain hotels we currently own or those we acquire in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material (“ACM”). Environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained, and include requirements to undertake special precautions, such as removal or abatement, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation, or demolition of a building. These laws regarding ACM may impose fines and penalties on building owners, employers and operators for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to material liability to third parties if property damage or personal injury occurs. Compliance with the laws, regulations and covenants that apply to our hotels, including permit, license and zoning requirements, may adversely affect our ability to make future acquisitions or renovations, result in significant costs or delays and adversely affect our growth strategy. Our hotels are subject to various covenants and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our hotels and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our hotels, including prior to acquiring a hotel or when undertaking any renovations of any of our hotels. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. We cannot assure you that existing regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that would increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and zoning approvals. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and zoning approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, federal and state laws and regulations, including laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), impose further restrictions on our operations. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Some of our hotels may currently be in noncompliance with the ADA. If one or more of the hotels in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA or any other regulatory requirements, we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the hotel into compliance and we might incur damages or governmental fines. In addition, existing requirements may change and future requirements may require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of our stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 If we default on ground leases for land on which any of our hotels are located, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we default under the terms of any of our ground leases and are unable to cure the default in a timely manner, we may be liable for damages and could lose our leasehold interest in the applicable property and interest in the hotel on the applicable property. If any of the events of default were to occur and are not timely cured, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We assumed liabilities in connection with the formation transactions, including unknown liabilities, which, if significant, could adversely affect our business. As part of the formation transactions, we assumed existing liabilities of our predecessor and its affiliates, including, but not limited to, liabilities in connection with our hotels, some of which may be unknown or unquantifiable. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of hotel guests, vendors or other persons dealing with our predecessor, The Summit Group, and their affiliates, tax liabilities, employment-related issues and accrued but unpaid liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. In addition, the aggregate value of Common Units issued in the formation transactions was less than the value assumed in the fairness opinion rendered to our predecessor, thus our predecessor and we will not benefit from such fairness opinion. This could increase our exposure to claims, if brought, that the Merger was not fair to our predecessor’s members. If the magnitude of such unknown liabilities is high, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of our stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders. Tax consequences to holders of Common Units upon a sale or refinancing of our hotels may cause the interests of holders of Common Units, including certain of our executive officers and directors, to differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As a result of the unrealized built-in gain that may be attributable to one or more of our hotels, holders of Common Units, including certain of our executive officers and directors, may experience more onerous tax consequences than holders of our stock upon the sale or refinancing of these hotels, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon the occurrence of such an event. The tax protection agreements that we entered into with certain former members of our predecessor, including The Summit Group, which is wholly owned by our Executive Chairman, Mr. Boekelheide, will not provide protection from those more onerous tax consequences. A holder of Common Units that receives a disproportionately greater allocation of taxable income and gain will not receive a correspondingly greater distribution of cash proceeds with which to pay the income taxes on such income. Accordingly, they may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of such hotels and could exercise their influence over our affairs by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our fiduciary duties as the general partner of our operating partnership could create conflicts of interest. We, through our wholly owned subsidiary that serves as the sole general partner of our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties to our operating partnership’s limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The limited partners of our operating partnership have agreed for so long as we own a controlling interest in our operating partnership that, in the event of a conflict between the duties owed by our directors to our company and the duties that we owe, in our capacity as the sole general partner of our operating partnership, to the limited partners, our directors must give priority to the interests of our stockholders. In addition, those persons holding Common Units have the right to vote on certain amendments to the limited partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights, as well as the right to vote on mergers and consolidations of the general partner or us in certain limited circumstances. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. For example, we cannot adversely affect the limited partners’ rights to receive distributions, as set forth in the limited partnership agreement, without their consent, even though modifying such rights might be in the best interest of our stockholders generally. 20 Certain key members of our senior management team continue to be involved in other businesses, which may interfere with their ability to devote time and attention to our business and affairs. We rely on our senior management team to manage our strategic direction and day-to-day operations of our business. Our employment agreement with Mr. Boekelheide requires him to devote a substantial portion of his business time and attention to our business and our employment agreements with our other executive officers require our executives to devote substantially all of their business time and attention to our business. Messrs. Boekelheide, Hansen, Aniszewski, Becker and Bertucci have certain outside business interests which may reduce the amount of time that Messrs. Boekelheide, Hansen, Aniszewski, Becker and Bertucci are able to devote to our business. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Provisions of our charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us by authorizing our board of directors to issue additional securities. Our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock, and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may authorize the issuance of additional shares or establish a series of common or preferred stock that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our shares, even if stockholders believe that a change in control is in their interest. These provisions, along with the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our charter and certain provisions of Maryland law described below, could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us by requiring our board of directors or stockholders to approve proposals to acquire our company or effect a change in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) applicable to Maryland corporations may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: ● “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of us who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations, unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL, for their stock and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares; and ● “control share” provisions that provide that our “control shares” (defined as voting shares of stock which, when aggregated with all other shares of stock controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer, by our officers or by our employees who are also directors of our company. 21 By resolution of our board of directors, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provided that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). In addition, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit our stockholders’ recourse in the event of actions not in our stockholders’ best interests. Under Maryland law, generally, a director will not be liable if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: ● actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or ● active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director and officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter and bylaws or that might exist with other companies. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause (as defined in our charter) and then only by the affirmative vote of holders of shares entitled to cast at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Our charter also provides that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements prevent stockholders from removing directors except for cause and with a substantial affirmative vote and from replacing directors with their own nominees and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. The ability of our board of directors to change our major policies without the consent of stockholders may not be in our stockholders’ interest. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including policies and guidelines relating to our acquisitions, leverage, financing, growth, operations and distributions to stockholders. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies and guidelines from time to time without the vote or consent of our stockholders. Accordingly, our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and those changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 22 The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. We are a holding company with no direct operations. As a result, we rely on funds received from our operating partnership to pay liabilities and dividends, our stockholders’ claims will be structurally subordinated to all liabilities of our operating partnership and our stockholders will not have any voting rights with respect to our operating partnership activities, including the issuance of additional Common Units or Preferred Units. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our operating partnership. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our operating partnership, any independent operations. As a result, we rely on distributions from our operating partnership to pay any dividends we might declare on shares of our common or preferred stock. We also rely on distributions from our operating partnership to meet any of our obligations, including tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from our operating partnership (which might make distributions to us that do not equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholders’ claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our stockholders will be satisfied only after all of our and our operating partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. We own approximately 73.0% of the Common Units in our operating partnership, 100% of the general partnership interest in our operating partnership, and 100% of the Series A Preferred Units in our operating partnership. Any future issuances by our operating partnership of additional Common Units or Preferred Units could reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership. Because our common stockholders do not directly own any Common Units or Series A Preferred Units, they will not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership-level activities of our operating partnership. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or another nationally recognized exchange may not continue to list our securities, which could limit stockholders’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol “INN” and our Series A Preferred Stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol “INNPrA.” In order to remain listed we are required to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE or, in the alternative, any other nationally recognized exchange to which we apply. We may be unable to satisfy those listing requirements, and there is no guarantee our securities will remain listed on a nationally recognized exchange. If our securities are delisted from the NYSE or another nationally recognized exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ● a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ● reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; ● a determination that our common stock is “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for the common stock; ● a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and ● a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 23 Failure of the hotel industry to continue to improve may adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies, which, in turn, would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business strategy is based on continued improvements in hotel industry fundamentals generally and our operating results specifically. We cannot assure you that hotel industry fundamentals or operating results will continue to improve. Economic slowdown and world events outside our control, such as terrorism, have adversely affected the hotel industry in the recent past and if these events reoccur, may adversely affect the industry in the future. In the event conditions in the hotel industry do not continue to improve as we expect, our ability to execute our business strategies will be adversely affected, which, in turn, would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The cash available for distribution may not be sufficient to make distributions at expected levels, and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may use borrowed funds or funds from other sources to make distributions, which may adversely affect our operations. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders and holders of Common Units. Distributions declared by us will be authorized by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for distribution and will depend upon a number of factors, including restrictions under applicable law and the capital requirements of our company. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, the requirements for qualification as a REIT, restrictions under applicable law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may be required to fund distributions from working capital, borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility, proceeds of future stock offerings or a sale of assets to the extent distributions exceed earnings or cash flows from operations. Funding distributions from working capital would restrict our operations. If we borrow from the secured revolving credit facility in order to pay distributions, we would be more limited in our ability to execute our strategy of using that secured revolving credit facility to fund acquisitions. Finally, selling assets may require us to dispose of assets at a time or in a manner that is not consistent with our disposition strategy. If we borrow to fund distributions, our leverage ratios and future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may be considered a return of capital for income tax purposes. If we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in its investment. If distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. We may change the distribution policy for our common stock in the future. The decision to declare and make distributions on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future distributions, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, funds from operations, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements or contractual prohibitions, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, state law and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. The actual distribution payable will be determined by our board of directors based upon the circumstances at the time of declaration and the actual distribution payable may vary from expected amounts. Any change in our distribution policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. We are generally restricted from declaring or paying any distributions, or setting aside any funds for the payment of distributions, on our common stock or our Common Units, subject to certain exceptions, redeeming or otherwise acquiring shares of our common stock or our Common Units unless full cumulative distributions on our Series A Preferred Stock and the Series A Preferred Units have been declared and either paid or set aside for payment in full for all past distribution periods. The market price of our stock may be volatile due to numerous circumstances beyond our control. The trading prices of equity securities issued by REITs and other real estate companies historically have been affected by changes in market interest rates. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common or preferred stock is the annual yield from distributions on our common or preferred stock, respectively, as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates, or a decrease in our distributions to stockholders, may lead prospective purchasers of our common or preferred stock to demand a higher annual yield, which could reduce the market price of our common or preferred stock, respectively. 24 Other factors that could affect the market price of our stock include the following: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; ● changes in market valuations of companies in the lodging industry; ● changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; ● fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; ● our issuances of common stock, preferred stock, or other securities in the future; ● the inclusion of our common stock and preferred stock in equity indices, which could induce additional purchases; ● the addition or departure of key personnel; ● announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and ● unforeseen events beyond our control, such as instability in the national, European or global economy, terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities and travel-related accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes. The market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales or refinancings, as well as the real estate market value of the underlying assets, may cause our common and preferred stock to trade at prices that differ from our net asset value per share. If we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common and preferred stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred stock. The trading market for our stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose attention in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our stock to decline. The number of shares of our common stock and preferred stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price per share of our common stock and preferred stock, respectively, and future sales by us of shares of our common stock, preferred stock, or issuances by our operating partnership of Common Units may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market, or upon exchange of Common Units or exercise of any equity awards, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and preferred stock. The exchange of Common Units for common stock, conversion of Series A Preferred Stock for common stock, the vesting of any equity-based awards granted to certain directors, executive officers and other employees under the 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, the issuance of our common stock or Common Units in connection with hotel, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock or Common Units could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to register up to 10,100,000 shares of common stock issuable by us to the holders of Common Units issued in our formation transactions upon the exercise of their redemption rights. Once the registration statement becomes effective, there could be a significant amount of sales of our common stock in a short period of time or the perception that a substantial amount of sales may occur, either or both of which could depress the market price of our common stock. In addition, future sales by us of shares of our common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders. 25 Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common and preferred stock upon liquidation and issuances of equity securities (including Common Units), which may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future we may offer debt securities and issue equity securities, including Common Units, Series A Preferred Stock or other preferred shares, that may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and our preferred shares will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to pre-emptive rights or other protections against us offering senior debt or equity securities. Therefore, additional common share issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including Common Units), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, new issues of preferred stock could have a preference on liquidating distributions and a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay a dividend or make another distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of future issuances. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. The Series A Preferred Stock is subordinate to our existing and future debt, and Series A Preferred Stockholders interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock and by other transactions. The Series A Preferred Stock will rank junior to all of our existing and future debt and senior equity securities and to other non-equity claims on us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceedings. Our existing debt includes restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to preferred stockholders, and our future debt may include similar restrictions. Our charter currently authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors, without any action on the part of our stockholders, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations prescribed by Maryland law and our charter, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue, from our authorized but unissued shares of capital stock, preferred stock in such classes or series as our Board of Directors may determine and to establish from time to time the number of shares of preferred stock to be included in any such class or series. The issuance of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock or other parity equity securities could dilute the interests of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, and the issuance of any senior equity securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock. Other than the conversion right afforded to holders of Series A Preferred Stock that may become exercisable in connection with certain changes of control as described in the prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 25, 2011 (“Prospectus”) under the heading “Description of the Series A Preferred Stock — Conversion Rights,” none of the provisions relating to the Series A Preferred Stock contain any terms relating to or limiting our indebtedness or affording the holders of Series A Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets, that might adversely affect the holders of Series A Preferred Stock. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have extremely limited voting rights. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Our shares of common stock are the only class of our securities that carry full voting rights. Voting rights for holders of Series A Preferred Stock exist primarily with respect to the ability to elect, together with holders of our parity equity securities having similar voting rights, if any, two additional directors to our Board of Directors in the event that six quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive) payable on the Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears, and with respect to voting on amendments to our charter or articles supplementary relating to the Series A Preferred Stock that materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock or create additional classes or series of senior equity securities. Other than these limited circumstances, holders of Series A Preferred Stock will not have any voting rights. 26 Holders of Series A Preferred Stock may not be permitted to exercise conversion rights upon a change of control. If exercisable, the change of control conversion feature of the Series A Preferred Stock may not adequately compensate the holders, and the change of control conversion and redemption features of the Series A Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for a party to take over our company or discourage a party from taking over our company. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, as defined in our charter, as a result of which our common stock and the common securities of the acquiring or surviving entity (or ADRs representing such common securities) are not listed on the NYSE, the NYSE Amex or NASDAQ, or listed or quoted on an exchange or quotation system that is a successor to the NYSE, the NYSE Amex or NASDAQ, holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have the right to convert some or all of their Series A Preferred Stock into our common stock (or equivalent value of alternative consideration). Notwithstanding that we generally may not redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to October 28, 2016, we have a special optional redemption right to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock in the event of a Change of Control, and holders of Series A Preferred Stock will not have the right to convert any shares that we have elected to redeem prior to the Change of Control Conversion Date, as defined in our charter. Upon such a conversion, the holders will be limited to a maximum number of shares of our common stock equal to 5.92417 multiplied by the number of Series A Preferred Stock converted. If the Common Stock Price is less than $4.22, subject to adjustment, the holders will receive a maximum of 5.92417 shares of our common stock per share Series A Preferred Stock, which may result in a holder receiving value that is less than the liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, those features of the Series A Preferred Stock may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT Failure to remain qualified as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders. We believe that our organization and proposed method of operation enabled us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2011. However, we cannot assure you that we will qualify and remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because: ● we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; ● we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and ● unless we are entitled to relief under certain federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the value of our stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, our TRSs are subject to regular corporate federal, state and local taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders. 27 Failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% non-deductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and may force us to borrow funds or sell assets during unfavorable market conditions or pay taxable stock dividends. In order to satisfy our qualification as a REIT and to meet the REIT distribution requirements, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis or sell assets, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings or sales. Our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt service or amortization payments. For example, we may be required to accrue income from mortgage loans and other types of debt instruments that we may acquire before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. We may also acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified or foreclosed upon, which could result in significant taxable income without any corresponding cash payment. The insufficiency of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise short- and long-term debt or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Also, although the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued private letter rulings to other REITs, which may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they were issued, and a revenue procedure applicable to our 2007 through 2011 taxable years sanctioning certain issuances of taxable stock dividends by REITs under certain circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will be able to pay taxable stock dividends to meet our REIT distribution requirements. The formation of our TRSs increases our overall tax liability. Our TRSs are subject to federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, which consists of the revenue from the hotels leased by our TRS lessees, net of the operating expenses for such hotels and rent payments to us and, in the case of the one hotel that is owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of one of our TRSs, the revenue from that hotel, net of the operating expenses. Accordingly, although our ownership of our TRSs allows us to participate in the operating income from our hotels in addition to receiving rent, that operating income will be fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of our TRSs is available for distribution to us. If we have any non-U.S. TRSs, then they may be subject to tax in jurisdictions where they operate. Our TRS lessee structure subjects us to the risk of increased hotel operating expenses that could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our leases with our TRS lessees require our TRS lessees to pay us rent based in part on revenue from our hotels. Our operating risks include decreases in hotel revenue and increases in hotel operating expenses, including but not limited to the increases in wage and benefit costs, repair and maintenance expenses, energy costs, property taxes, insurance costs and other operating expenses, which would adversely affect our TRSs’ ability to pay us rent due under the leases. Increases in these operating expenses can have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common and preferred shares and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 28 Our ownership of our TRSs is subject to limitations and our transactions with our TRSs could cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. The 100% tax would apply, for example, to the extent that we were found to have charged our TRS lessees rent in excess of an arm’s-length rent. We monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations and structure our transactions with our TRSs on terms that we believe are arm’s length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% TRS limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax. If the leases of our hotels to our TRS lessees are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we will fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must annually satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as “rents from real property.” Rents paid to our operating partnership by our TRS lessees pursuant to the leases of our hotels constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, financing arrangements, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we will fail to qualify as a REIT. If our operating partnership is treated as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we will cease to qualify as a REIT. Although we believe that our operating partnership will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge that position. If the IRS were to successfully contend that our operating partnership should be treated as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we would fail to meet the 75% gross income test and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, unless we qualified for certain statutory relief provisions, we would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, our operating partnership would become subject to federal, state and local income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to us. If Interstate, our other hotel management companies, or any other hotel management companies that we may engage in the future do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” or if our hotels are not “qualified lodging facilities,” we will fail to qualify as a REIT. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. An exception is provided, however, for leases of “qualified lodging facilities” to a TRS so long as the hotels are managed by an “eligible independent contractor” and certain other requirements are satisfied. We lease all but one of our hotels to our TRS lessees. The remaining hotel is owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of one of our TRSs. All of our hotels are operated pursuant to hotel management agreements with Interstate and other hotel management companies, each of which we believe qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, the hotel manager must not own, directly or through its stockholders, more than 35% of our outstanding shares, and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the shares (or ownership interest) of the hotel manager, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds are complex, and monitoring actual and constructive ownership of our shares by our hotel managers and their owners may not be practical. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. 29 In addition, for a hotel management company to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, such company or a related person must be actively engaged in the trade or business of operating “qualified lodging facilities” (as defined below) for one or more persons not related to the REIT or its TRSs at each time that such company enters into a hotel management contract with a TRS or its TRS lessee. As of the date hereof, we believe each of our hotel management companies operates qualified lodging facilities for certain persons who are not related to us or our TRSs. However, no assurances can be provided that our hotel management companies or any other hotel managers that we may engage in the future will in fact comply with this requirement. Failure to comply with this requirement would require us to find other managers for future contracts, and, if we hired a management company without knowledge of the failure, it could jeopardize our status as a REIT. Finally, each property with respect to which our TRS lessees pay rent must be a “qualified lodging facility.” A “qualified lodging facility” is a hotel, motel or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis, including customary amenities and facilities, provided that no wagering activities are conducted at or in connection with such facility by any person who is engaged in the business of accepting wagers and who is legally authorized to engage in such business at or in connection with such facility. As of the date hereof, we believe that the properties that are leased to our TRS lessees and the property that is owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of one of our TRSs are qualified lodging facilities. Although we intend to monitor future acquisitions and improvements of properties, REIT provisions of the Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified lodging facilities, and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our stock. The stock ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our capital stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2011, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year after 2011. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. 30 We may pay taxable dividends of our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common stock at the election of each stockholder. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS previously issued a revenue procedure authorizing publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock dividends, but that revenue procedure does not apply to our 2012 and future taxable years. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay a taxable dividend of our common stock and cash. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 31 