Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. More detailed information concerning these risks is contained in other sections of this report, including "Business" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Risks Related to Our Business Ongoing negative pressure in the financial industry and the current economic environment poses significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Ongoing negative developments in the global currency, debt, credit, and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general, and the economy continued to be weak through 2011, both nationally and in our Georgia markets. As a result of this "credit crunch," commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Global securities markets, and bank and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Financial institutions like ours have been, and may continue to be, affected by sharp declines in the real estate market, including falling home prices and increasing delinquencies, foreclosures and increased unemployment. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. Those concerns have led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. We do not expect these difficult conditions to dramatically improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us. As a result, we may face the following risks: •economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate; •market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; •the processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; •the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and •we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents A further adverse change in real estate market values may result in losses and otherwise adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 91.8% of our noncovered loan portfolio (those loans not covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC) was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The ongoing negative developments in the financial industry and economy as a whole have adversely affected the real estate market values generally and in our market areas in Georgia specifically and may continue to decline. For example, based on information gathered by CoStar Group, Inc., commercial real estate property values in the Atlanta market have decreased from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2011 as follows: office values decreased by 50.1%; retail values decreased by 31.2%; and industrial values decreased by 29.8%. The majority of our noncovered loans were originated after September 2009. From September 2009 through December 31, 2011, similar declines in commercial real estate property occurred: office values decreased by 51.4%; retail values decreased by 27%; and industrial values decreased by 32.1%. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 86.3% of our noncovered loan portfolio consists of loans secured by commercial real estate, comprising $605.2 million of total loans, with approximately 34.1% of the commercial real estate property underlying those loans being located in our Atlanta market. A further decline in real estate values could further impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive on the sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 48.3% of the property underlying our noncovered real estate loans is located in our Atlanta and Middle Georgia markets. If, over the next two to three years, we are unable to replace the revenue we expect to derive from the continued realization of accretable discounts on our acquired loans and the FDIC receivable with new loans and other earning assets, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected. As a result of the twelve FDIC-assisted acquisitions we have made and the negative purchase price associated with each acquisition, we anticipate that a significant portion of our income over the next two to three years will be derived from the continued realization of accretable discounts on the loans that we purchased in our FDIC-assisted acquisitions and from the FDIC receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $127.6 million of income, or 61.2% of our total revenue for the year, from the realization of accretable discounts on our acquired loans and the FDIC receivable. The accretable discount on the acquired loans will be recognized into interest income over the estimated life of the covered loan portfolio. Furthermore, the discount recorded on the FDIC receivable will be accreted into noninterest income using the level yield method over the estimated life of the receivable. During the period, if we are unable to replace our acquired loans and the related accretion with new performing loans and other earning assets due to a decline in loan demand, competition from other financial institutions in our markets or if current economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected. We may decide to make future acquisitions, which could expose us to additional risks. We periodically evaluate opportunities to acquire additional financial institutions, including additional purchases from the FDIC. As a result, we may engage in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long-term liquidity. 32 Table of Contents Our acquisition activities could be material and could require us to use a substantial amount of common stock, cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized. Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of: •incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management's attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; •using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; •incurring time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses, creating an adverse short-term effect on results of operations; and •losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. We may be exposed to difficulties in combining the operations of acquired institutions, including the twelve banks we have already acquired from the FDIC, into our own operations, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from our acquisition activities. We may not be able to fully achieve the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies that we anticipate in our acquisition activities, including our acquisitions of the twelve banks we acquired from the FDIC, as receiver. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired institution. In addition, the markets in which we and our potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. We may lose existing customers, or the customers of an acquired institution, as a result of an acquisition. We also may lose key personnel from the acquired institution as a result of an acquisition. We may not discover all known and unknown factors when examining an institution for acquisition during the due diligence period. These factors could produce unintended and unexpected consequences. Undiscovered factors as a result of an acquisition could bring civil, criminal and financial liabilities against us, our management and the management of the institutions we acquire. These factors could contribute to our not achieving the expected benefits from our acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results. The majority of our assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates move contrary to our position, this "gap" may work against us, and our earnings may be adversely affected. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of 33 Table of Contents market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in the general level of market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of those changes or how and to what extent they may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for or compensate for the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates or adjust for the consequences of these changes may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results. We depend on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our success largely depends on the continued service and skills of our existing management team, including Joseph W. Evans, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Daniel Speight, Jr., our Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Kim M. Childers, our President, Chief Credit Officer and Executive Risk Officer, Stephen W. Doughty, our Executive Banking Officer, and Thomas L. Callicutt, Jr., our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as well as other key employees with long-term customer relationships. Our growth strategy is built primarily on our ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective segments. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of finding qualified replacement personnel. Our management team's strategies for the enhancement of shareholder value may not succeed. Our management team is taking actions to enhance shareholder value, including consolidating operation centers, reviewing personnel, assembling new product teams, and reviewing purchases of performing loans from the FDIC and others, and continuing to review FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities on a whole bank and deposit only basis. These actions may not enhance shareholder value. FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not become available to us, and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on failed bank transactions on terms we consider to be acceptable. Our near-term business strategy includes consideration of potential acquisitions of failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities in part because of loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC that limit the acquirer's downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio, and apart from our assumption of deposit liabilities, we have significant discretion as to the nondeposit liabilities that we assume. In addition, assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value, and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. The bidding process for failing banks could become more competitive, and the increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider to be acceptable. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the 34 Table of Contents FDIC and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, and class action lawsuits. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than our shareholders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry are changing rapidly to reflect the government's concerns about the economy and the banking system, and these changes may adversely affect our business and profitability. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, and the interpretation and implementation of new statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. We are also subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to have in place adequate programs and procedures could cause us to have weakness in our internal control environment, putting us and our shareholders at risk of loss. These and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business. Regulatory reform of the U.S. banking system may adversely affect us. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act which, among other things, changes the oversight and supervision of financial institutions, introduces minimum capital requirements, creates a new federal agency to regulate consumer financial products and services and implements changes to corporate governance and compensation practices. Other recent developments include: •the Federal Reserve's proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations; and •proposals to limit a lender's ability to foreclose on mortgages or make those foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to "cram down" the value of certain mortgages on a consumer's principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their homes. These initiatives may increase our expenses or decrease our income. Further, the overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets remain uncertain, and they may not have the intended results. These efforts may even have unintended harmful consequences on the U.S. financial system and our business. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives have unintended effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations in response to these changes. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse disruptions, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 35 Table of Contents The recent downgrade of the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and any future rating agency action with respect to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, the current debt crisis in Europe, the risk that certain countries may default on their sovereign debt, and the resulting impact on the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On August 2, 2011, Moody's confirmed the U.S. government's existing sovereign rating but stated that the rating outlook is negative. Also on August 2, 2011, Fitch affirmed its existing sovereign rating of the U.S. government but stated that the U.S. government's rating is under review. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor's downgraded the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term U.S. debt. These downgrades, and any future downgrades, as well as the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations, could impact our ability to obtain, and the pricing with respect to, funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and obtained through the secured and unsecured markets. We cannot predict how this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, will impact economic or capital markets conditions generally. It is possible that any such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial position. In addition, the current crisis in Europe has created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. These conditions have adversely impacted financial markets and have created substantial volatility and uncertainty and will likely continue to do so. Risks related to this have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. As these conditions persist, our business, results of operation, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a privately held company, we were not responsible for the corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies required of a publicly traded company. Following the effective date of our registration statement on December 28, 2010, we are now a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company and are not reflected in certain of our historical financial statements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC under the Dodd-Frank Act, will require changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on the quality of our assets, particularly loans. Like other financial institutions, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We maintain an allowance for loan losses with respect to our loan portfolio, in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. We also make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including 36 Table of Contents the diversification in our loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the economy on real estate and other collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period and the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income and adversely affect our financial condition generally. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to higher credit risk by construction and development, commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial lending. Construction and development, commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial lending usually involve higher credit risks than single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2011, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: real estate construction and development—20.5%, commercial real estate—56.9%, and commercial and industrial—4.6%. As of December 31, 2011, of these loans, 48.7% are covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC. However, over time, we expect that the number of noncovered loans in these categories will increase. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortized over the loan period but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Risk of loss on a construction and development loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing and the builder's ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial and industrial loans are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the assets securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Construction and development loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial and industrial loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. 37 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, our outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 143.1% of our total risk-based capital. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Changes in local economic conditions where we operate could have a negative effect. Our success depends significantly on growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets in Georgia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant effect on our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay our loans, and the value of the collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in, and further deterioration of, the economic conditions of the Southeastern United States in general or any one or more of our local markets could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and our profitability. A continuing deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: •loan delinquencies may increase; •problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •demand for our products and services may decline; and •collateral for loans that we make, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers or may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customer deposits. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Moreover, this competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as SunTrust Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and BB&T. We also compete with regional and local community banks in our market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields on loans to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. 38 Table of Contents Future growth or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or may be dilutive. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and any future growth. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control and largely do not depend on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These restrictions could negatively affect our ability to operate or further expand our operations through loan growth, acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches. These restrictions may also result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Recent market developments and bank failures significantly depleted the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are now assessed deposit insurance premiums based on the bank's average consolidated total assets, and the FDIC has modified certain risk-based adjustments, which increase or decrease a bank's overall assessment rate. This has resulted in increases to the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability, may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or otherwise negatively impact our operations. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 39 Table of Contents Any requested or required changes in how we determine the impact of loss share accounting on our financial information could have a material or adverse effect on our reported results. Our financial results are significantly based on loss share accounting, which is subject to assumptions and judgments made by us, our accountants and the regulatory agencies to whom we report such information. Loss share accounting is a complex accounting methodology. Many of the decisions management makes regarding the application of this accounting methodology are subject to question or revision by our accountants and the various regulatory agencies to whom we report. As such, any financial information generated through the use of loss share accounting is subject to modification or change. Any significant modification or change in such information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our previously reported results. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. We will have to respond to future technological changes. Specifically, if our competitors introduce new banking products and services embodying new technologies, or if new banking industry standards and practices emerge, then our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may be impaired or become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, then we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly, and to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Risks Related to the Acquisition of the Acquired Banks We are subject to risks related to FDIC-assisted transactions. The ultimate success of our past FDIC-assisted transactions, and any FDIC-assisted transactions in which we may participate in the future, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability: •to fully integrate, and to integrate successfully, the operations we have acquired into the Bank's operations; •to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (loans) acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions; •to retain existing deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired banks; •to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence; •to deploy the cash received in the FDIC-assisted transactions into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; •to control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired operations in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; •to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired operations; •to earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired operations; and •to reasonably estimate cash flows for acquired loans to mitigate exposure greater than estimated losses at the time of acquisition. 40 Table of Contents As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches as is often the case with FDIC-assisted transactions, there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences to our new customers or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. We anticipate challenges and opportunities because of the unique nature of each acquisition. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management's attention and resources. We may be unable to integrate acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the FDIC-assisted transactions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage effectively any growth resulting from FDIC-assisted transactions. In addition, on January 3, 2012, President Obama signed into law a bill introduced by Representative Lynn Westmoreland that calls for the Inspector General of the FDIC to study the impact of bank failures, including the FDIC's handling of loss-share arrangements. The results of this study, while currently unknown, may affect how the FDIC administers and interprets our loss share agreements or may impact whether the FDIC places banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Should this or other legislative initiatives have such effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to continue to receive the benefits of our loss share arrangements with the FDIC is conditioned upon our compliance with certain requirements under the agreements. We are the beneficiary of loss share agreements with the FDIC that call for the FDIC to fund a portion of our losses on a majority of the assets we acquired in connection with our recent FDIC-assisted transactions. To recover a portion of our losses and retain the loss share protection, we must comply with certain requirements imposed by the agreements. The requirements of the agreements relate primarily to our administration of the assets covered by the agreements, as well as our obtaining the consent of the FDIC to engage in certain corporate transactions that may be deemed under the agreements to constitute a transfer of the loss share benefits. For example, in some of our loss share agreements, any merger or consolidation of the Bank and for a period of 36 months from the acquisition date, any public or private offering of common stock by us that would increase our outstanding shares by more than 9%, requires the consent of the FDIC. When the consent of the FDIC is required under the loss share agreements, the FDIC may withhold its consent or may condition its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable. If the FDIC does not grant its consent to a transaction we would like to pursue, or conditions its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable, we may be unable to engage in a corporate transaction that might otherwise benefit our shareholders or we may elect to pursue such a transaction without obtaining the FDIC's consent, which could result in termination of our loss share agreements with the FDIC. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Banks and the loss sharing agreement with the FDIC may not cover all of those charge-offs. In connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Banks, we acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we have marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, the nonimpaired loans we acquired may become impaired or may further deteriorate in value, resulting in additional charge-offs to the loan portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including 41 Table of Contents those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio and consequently reduce our capital. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Our loss sharing arrangements with the FDIC will not cover all of our losses on loans we acquired through the acquisition of the Acquired Banks. Although we have entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC that provide that the FDIC will bear a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired in connection with our acquisitions of the Acquired Banks, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms (10 years for losses on single-family residential real estate loans, five years for losses on nonresidential real estate loans and eight years with respect to recoveries on nonresidential real estate loans). Therefore, the FDIC will not reimburse us for any charge-off or related losses that we experience after the term of the loss share agreements, and any such charge-offs would negatively impact our net income. Moreover, the loss share provisions in the loss share agreement may be administered improperly, or the FDIC may interpret those provisions in a way different than we do. In any of those events, our losses could increase. The FDIC requires that we make a "true-up" payment to the FDIC if our realized losses are less than expected. Some of the loss share agreements between the Bank and the FDIC with respect to certain of our FDIC-assisted transactions contain a provision that obligates us to make a "true-up" payment to the FDIC if the realized losses experienced with these acquired banks are less than expected. The "true-up" calculation is scheduled to be made as of the 45th day following the last day of the calendar month of the tenth anniversary of the closing of the applicable acquisitions. Any such "true-up" payment could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Shares of our common stock are subject to dilution. As of March 15, 2012, we had 31,721,236 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, warrants outstanding to purchase another 2,686,827 shares of our common stock, and options to purchase 28,918 shares of our common stock. Our outstanding shares of common stock include 109,655 shares of restricted stock. If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future and do not issue those shares to all then-existing common shareholders proportionately to their interests, then the issuance will result in dilution to each shareholder by reducing the shareholder's percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors may issue shares of preferred stock that would adversely affect the rights of our common shareholders. Our authorized capital stock includes 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no preferred shares are issued and outstanding. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock from the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations imposed by law or our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is empowered to determine: •the designation of, and the number of, shares constituting each series of preferred stock; •the dividend rate for each series; 42 Table of Contents •the terms and conditions of any voting, conversion and exchange rights for each series; •the amounts payable on each series on redemption or our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up; •the provisions of any sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of any series; and •the preferences and the relative rights among the series of preferred stock. We could issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the shares of our common stock and with preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends and in liquidation. We do not anticipate declaring dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends unless our board of directors declares them. Since the inception of the Company in January 2010, we have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company's principal source of funds to pay dividends is the cash dividends that it receives from the Bank. Under the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance's letter dated July 24, 2009, issuing its approval of the Interagency Notice of Change in Control application filed by Joseph W. Evans, J. Daniel Speight and Kim M. Childers, with respect to the Bank, the Bank must obtain approval from the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance before paying any dividends, including dividend payments to the Company, until July 2012. In addition, during the first three years of the Company's operations, the Company may not pay dividends without the prior written approval of the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Even after these conditions expire, our ability to pay dividends will be limited by regulatory restrictions, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, level of indebtedness and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our securities are not FDIC insured. Our securities, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of the Bank, are not insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC or any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 