Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. More detailed information concerning these risks is contained in other sections of this report, including "Business" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."Risks Related to Our BusinessNegative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets, a general economic downturn and a tepid economic recovery, both nationally and in our Georgia markets. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions and have not fully recovered, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we may face the following risks:•economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate;•market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities;•the processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation;•the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and•we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase.These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.23A further adverse change in real estate market values may result in losses and otherwise adversely affect our profitability.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 92.9% of our noncovered loan portfolio (those loans not covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC) was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each loan provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 71.3% of our noncovered loan portfolio consists of loans secured by commercial real estate, comprising $801.5 million of total loans.A further decline in real estate values could further impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive on the sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to replace the revenue we expect to derive from the continued realization of accretable discounts on our acquired loans with new loans and other earning assets, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected.As a result of the twelve FDIC-assisted acquisitions we have made and the negative purchase price associated with each acquisition, we anticipate that a portion of our income will continue to be derived from the realization of accretable discounts on the loans that we purchased in our FDIC-assisted acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $122.5 million of accretion income, or 63.2% of our total interest income for the year, from the realization of accretable discounts on our acquired loans offset by amortization expense on the FDIC receivable. The accretable discount on the acquired loans will be recognized into interest income over the estimated life of the covered loan portfolio. During the period, if we are unable to replace our acquired loans and the related accretion with new performing loans and other earning assets due to a decline in loan demand, competition from other financial institutions in our markets, stagnation or continued deterioration of economic conditions, or other conditions, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected.We may decide to make future acquisitions, which could expose us to additional risks.We periodically evaluate opportunities to acquire additional financial institutions, including additional purchases from the FDIC. As a result, we may engage in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long-term liquidity.Our acquisition activities could be material and could require us to use a substantial amount of common stock, cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized.Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of:•incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management's attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;•using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;•incurring time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses, creating an adverse short-term effect on results of operations; and•losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received.24We may be exposed to difficulties in combining the operations of acquired institutions into our own operations, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from our acquisition activities.We may not be able to fully achieve the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies that we anticipate in our acquisition activities. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired institution. In addition, the markets in which we and our potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. We may lose existing customers, or the customers of an acquired institution, as a result of an acquisition. We also may lose key personnel from the acquired institution as a result of an acquisition. We may not discover all known and unknown factors when examining an institution for acquisition during the due diligence period. These factors could produce unintended and unexpected consequences. Undiscovered factors as a result of an acquisition could bring civil, criminal and financial liabilities against us, our management and the management of the institutions we acquire. These factors could contribute to our not achieving the expected benefits from our acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all.Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results.The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates move contrary to our position, this "gap" may work against us, and our earnings may be adversely affected.An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results.Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in the general level of market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the “Federal Reserve”). Adverse changes in the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies or other changes in monetary policies and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of those changes or how and to what extent they may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for or compensate for the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates or adjust for the consequences of these changes may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results.We depend on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results.Our success largely depends on the continued service and skills of our existing management team, including Joseph W. Evans, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Daniel Speight, Jr., our Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Kim M. Childers, our Vice Chairman and Executive Risk Officer, Stephen W. Doughty, our Vice Chairman and Corporate Development Officer, J. Thomas Wiley, Jr., our Vice Chairman and President, and Thomas L. Callicutt, Jr., our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as well as other key employees with long-term customer relationships. Our growth strategy is built primarily on our ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective segments. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of finding qualified replacement personnel.25FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not be available to us, and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on failed bank transactions on terms we consider to be acceptable.Our business strategy includes the consideration of potential acquisitions of failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities in part because of loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC that limit the acquirer's downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio. Assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value, and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. The bidding process for failing banks has become more competitive, and the increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider to be acceptable. Our prior acquisitions should be viewed in the context of the opportunities available to us as a result of the confluence of our access to capital at a time when market dislocations of historical proportions resulted in attractive asset acquisition opportunitiesWe are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings.We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, and class action lawsuits. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than our shareholders. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines, are increasing our costs of doing business and, as a result, may create an advantage for our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. In addition, future regulatory changes, including changes to regulatory capital requirements, could have an adverse impact on our future results. Furthermore, the federal and state bank regulatory authorities who supervise us have broad discretionary powers to take enforcement actions against banks for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions that have a material adverse effect on our future results. We are also subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to have in place adequate controls, programs and procedures could cause us to have weakness in our internal control environment, putting us and our shareholders at risk of loss.These and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material adverse effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:•changes to regulatory capital requirements;•exclusion of hybrid securities, including trust preferred securities, issued on or after May 19, 2010 from Tier 1 capital;•creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products);•potential limitations on federal preemption;•changes to deposit insurance assessments;•regulation of debit interchange fees we earn;•changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and•changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. 26In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies in order to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework and, on July 9, 2013, the FDIC adopted the same provisions in the form of an “interim” final rule. These rules substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in over time beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. The final rules increase capital requirements and generally include two new capital measurements that will affect us, a risk-based common equity Tier 1 ratio and a capital conservation buffer. Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital is a subset of Tier 1 capital and is limited to common equity (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income and certain other items. Other instruments that have historically qualified for Tier 1 treatment, including noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, are consigned to a category known as Additional Tier 1 capital and must be phased out over a period of nine years beginning in 2014. The rules permit bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in assets (such as us) to continue to include trust preferred securities and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital, but not CET1. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that have historically been placed in Tier 2, as well as cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Beginning in 2015, our minimum capital requirements will be (i) a CET1 ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the CET1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a require CET1 ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the final rules will result in higher regulatory capital standards, it is not expected to significantly impact the Company and the Bank as our current capital levels far exceed those required under the new rules. In addition to the higher required capital ratios and the new deductions and adjustments, the final rules increase the risk weights for certain assets, meaning that we will have to hold more capital against these assets. For example, commercial real estate loans that do not meet certain new underwriting requirements must be risk-weighted at 150%, rather than the current 100%. There are also new risk weights for unsettled transactions and derivatives. We also will be required to hold capital against short-term commitments that are not unconditionally cancelable; currently, there are no capital requirements for these off-balance sheet assets. All changes to the risk weights take effect in full in 2015. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The Company and the Bank have agreed with the FDIC to enter into a new Capital Maintenance Agreement, which will require the Bank to maintain the same capital requirements as the prior Capital Maintenance Agreement, through July 2016.27 The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back our shares. The federal banking agencies have proposed new liquidity standards that could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business lines by forcing us to seek new sources of liquidity for them, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. As part of the Basel III capital process, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has finalized a new liquidity standard, a liquidity coverage ratio, which requires a banking organization to hold sufficient “high quality liquid assets” to meet liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. A net stable funding ratio, which imposes a similar requirement over a one-year period, is under consideration. The U.S. banking regulators have proposed a liquidity coverage ratio for systemically important banks. Although the proposal would not apply directly to us, the substance of the proposal may inform the regulators’ assessment of our liquidity. We could be required to reduce our holdings of illiquid assets and adversely affect our results and financial condition.The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns in the U.S. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling in 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In January 2013, the U.S. government adopted legislation to suspend the debt limit until May 19, 2013. In February 2014, the U.S. debt ceiling was suspended through March 2015. Moody's and Fitch have each warned that they may downgrade the U.S. government's rating if the federal debt is not stabilized. A downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating or a default by the U.S. government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global banking system. It is possible that any such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company.As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company and are not reflected in certain of our historical financial statements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC under the Dodd-Frank Act, will require changes in regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We expect that these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs.28Lack of seasoning of our noncovered loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future.We have significantly grown our noncovered loan portfolio over the past several years. Due to this rapid growth, a large portion of our noncovered loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because a significant majority of our noncovered loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults in our noncovered loan portfolio may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will be adversely affected.Our success depends significantly on the quality of our assets, particularly loans. Like other financial institutions, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We maintain an allowance for loan losses with respect to our loan portfolio, in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. We also make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification in our loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the economy on real estate and other collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period and the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security. If our analysis or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income and adversely affect our general financial condition.In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We are exposed to higher credit risk by construction and development, commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial lending.Construction and development, commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial lending usually involve higher credit risks than single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2013, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total noncovered loan portfolio to the total loan portfolio: real estate construction and development-18.2%, commercial real estate-39.9%, and commercial and industrial-14.9%. As of December 31, 2013, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total covered loan portfolio to the total loan portfolio: real estate construction and development-2.5%, commercial real estate-4.9%, and commercial and industrial-4.2%. However, over time, we expect that the number of noncovered loans in these categories will increase. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers.Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner.29Risk of loss on a construction and development loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing and the builder's ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.Commercial and industrial loans are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the assets securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.Construction and development loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial and industrial loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.As of December 31, 2013, our outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 206.2% of our total risk-based capital. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures.Changes in local economic conditions where we operate could have a negative effect.Our success depends significantly on growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets in Georgia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant effect on our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay our loans, and the value of the collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in, and further deterioration of, the economic conditions of the Southeastern United States in general or any one or more of our local markets could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and our profitability. A continuing deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business:•loan delinquencies may increase;•problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•demand for our products and services may decline; and•collateral for loans that we make, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans.We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers or may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customer deposits.The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Moreover, this competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere.We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as SunTrust Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and BB&T. We also compete with regional and local community banks in our market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields on loans to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us.30Future growth or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or may be dilutive.We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and any future growth.Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control and largely do not depend on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These restrictions could negatively affect our ability to operate or further expand our operations through loan growth, acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches. These restrictions may also result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings.The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to $250,000 per account. The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Recent market developments and bank failures significantly depleted the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are now assessed deposit insurance premiums based on the bank's average consolidated total assets, and the FDIC has modified certain risk-based adjustments, which increase or decrease a bank's overall assessment rate. This has resulted in increases to the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability, may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or otherwise negatively impact our operations.The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate.The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported on our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.Any requested or required changes in how we determine the impact of loss share accounting on our covered loans and FDIC receivable for loss share agreements could have a material or adverse effect on our reported results.Our financial results continue to be significantly affected by loss share accounting, which is driven by accounting rule interpretations made by us. Loss share accounting is a complex accounting methodology. Many of the decisions management makes regarding the application of this accounting methodology are subject to review by our accountants and the various regulatory agencies to whom we report. As such, any financial information generated through the use of loss share accounting is subject to modification or change. Any significant modification or change in such information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our previously reported results.31We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (which we refer to as the “PATRIOT Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (which we refer to as “OFAC”). Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated.We will have to respond to future technological changes. Specifically, if our competitors introduce new banking products and services embodying new technologies, or if new banking industry standards and practices emerge, then our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may be impaired or become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, then we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly, and to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate.A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. As noted above, our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct its operations. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, and other third parties could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.32While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Risks Related to the Acquisition of our Acquired BanksWe are subject to risks related to our acquisition transactions.The ultimate success of our past FDIC-assisted transactions, and any acquisitions (whether FDIC-assisted or unassisted transactions) in which we may participate in the future, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability:•to fully integrate, and to integrate successfully, the branches acquired into our operations;•to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (loans) acquired;•to retain existing deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired banks;•to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence;•to control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired operations in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;•to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired operations;•to earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired operations; and•to reasonably estimate cash flows for acquired loans to mitigate exposure greater than estimated losses at the time of acquisition.As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches as is often the case with FDIC-assisted transactions, there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences to our new or existing customers or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. We anticipate challenges and opportunities because of the unique nature of each acquisition. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management's attention and resources. We may be unable to integrate acquired branches or their personnel successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition transactions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage effectively any growth resulting from our acquisition transactions.In addition, on January 3, 2013, the Inspector General of the FDIC issued a study on the impact of bank failures, including the FDIC's handling of loss share arrangements. The results of this study includes seven recommendations intended to strengthen certain supervisory activities, including, among other things, the development of additional controls for monitoring an acquiring institution's commercial loan modification efforts under loss share agreements, that may affect how the FDIC administers and interprets our loss share agreements or may impact whether the FDIC places banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Should this study or other legislative initiatives have such effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.33Our ability to continue to receive the benefits of our loss share arrangements with the FDIC is conditioned upon our compliance with certain requirements under the agreements.We are the beneficiary of loss share agreements with the FDIC that call for the FDIC to reimburse us for a portion of our losses on a majority of the assets we acquired in connection with our FDIC-assisted transactions. To recover a portion of our losses and retain the loss share protection, we must comply with certain requirements imposed by the agreements. The requirements of the agreements relate primarily to our administration of the assets covered by the agreements. Any failure to comply with the requirements of the loss share agreements, or to properly service the loans and other real estate owned covered by the agreements may cause individual loans or loan pools to lose their eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC, potentially resulting in material losses that are currently not anticipated. In addition, under the loss share agreements, we are subject to audits by the FDIC through its designated agent to monitor our compliance with the agreements. As the loan servicing standards evolve, we may experience difficulties in complying with the requirements of the loss share agreementsIn addition, under the loss share agreements, we must obtain the consent of the FDIC to engage in certain corporate transactions that may be deemed under the agreements to constitute a transfer of the loss share benefits. For example, a merger or consolidation of the Bank (or, under some of our loss share agreements, the Company, if the shareholders of the Company will own less than 66.66% of the consolidated entity), requires the consent of the FDIC. When the consent of the FDIC is required under the loss share agreements, the FDIC may withhold its consent or may condition its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable. If the FDIC does not grant its consent to a transaction we would like to pursue, or conditions its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable, we may be unable to engage in a corporate transaction that might otherwise benefit our shareholders or we may elect to pursue such a transaction without obtaining the FDIC's consent, which could result in termination of our loss share agreements with the FDIC which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Banks and the loss share agreement with the FDIC may not cover all of those charge-offs.In connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Banks, we acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we have marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, the nonimpaired loans we acquired may become impaired or may further deteriorate in value, resulting in additional charge-offs to the loan portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio and consequently reduce our capital. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.Our loss share arrangements with the FDIC will not cover all of our losses on loans we acquired through the acquisition of the Acquired Banks and we will not be reimbursed for losses on covered loans and other real estate after our loss share agreements expire.Although we have entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC that provide that the FDIC will bear a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired in connection with our acquisitions of the Acquired Banks, we are not protected against all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss share agreements have limited terms (ten years for losses on single-family loans, five years for losses on non single-family loans and eight years with respect to recoveries on non single-family loans). Certain of our covered loans and other real estate are subject to loss share agreements that will expire in 2014. The FDIC will not reimburse us for any charge-off or related losses for which we make claims after the expiration of the claim period under the applicable loss share agreements, and any such charge-offs for which we are not reimbursed would negatively impact our net income. Moreover, the loss share provisions in the loss share agreement may be administered improperly, or the FDIC may interpret those provisions in a way different than we do. In any of those events, our business, results of operation, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.34The FDIC requires that we make a "true-up" payment to the FDIC if our realized losses are less than expected.Some of the loss share agreements between the Bank and the FDIC with respect to certain of our FDIC-assisted transactions contain a provision that obligates us to make a "true-up" payment to the FDIC if the realized losses experienced with these acquired banks are less than expected. The "true-up" calculation is scheduled to be made as of the 45th day following the last day of the calendar month of the tenth anniversary of the closing of the applicable acquisitions. Any such "true-up" payment beyond that which we have estimated could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to Our Common StockShares of our common stock are subject to dilution.As of March 14, 2014, we had 32,127,645 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, warrants outstanding to purchase another 2,590,324 shares of our common stock, and options to purchase 28,918 shares of our common stock. Our outstanding shares of common stock include 431,269 shares of restricted stock. If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future and do not issue those shares to all then-existing common shareholders proportionately to their interests, the issuance will result in dilution to each shareholder by reducing the shareholder's percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares of our common stock.We may issue shares of preferred stock that would adversely affect the rights of our common shareholders.Our authorized capital stock includes 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no preferred shares are issued or outstanding. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock from the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations imposed by law or our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is empowered to determine:•the designation of, and the number of, shares constituting each series of preferred stock;•the dividend rate for each series;•the terms and conditions of any voting, conversion and exchange rights for each series;•the amounts payable on each series on redemption or our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up;•the provisions of any sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of any series; and•the preferences and the relative rights among the series of preferred stock.We could issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the shares of our common stock and with preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends and in liquidation.Our securities are not FDIC insured.Our securities, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of the Bank, are not insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC or any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.