Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk and should be regarded as speculative. As a result, the purchase of our common stock should be considered only by persons who can reasonably afford to lose their entire investment. Before you elect to purchase our common stock, you should carefully consider the risk and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information incorporated herein by reference. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or which we currently believe are immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In any case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our Business and our Industry We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, and expect to incur significant additional operating losses. We were incorporated in 2007, opened our laboratories in San Diego, California in January, 2009 and have only a limited operating history. Therefore, there is limited historical financial information upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of operations. We have generated operating losses since we began operations, including $9.3 million and $2.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had incurred cumulative operating losses of $13.7 million and cumulative net losses totaling $50.2 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses over the next several years as our research, development, and commercial activities increase. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability will depend on, among other things, entering into customer relationships with strategic partners, successful completion of the preclinical and clinical development of our partners’ product candidates; obtaining necessary regulatory approvals by our partners or us from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; successful manufacturing, sales, and marketing arrangements; and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. We might not succeed at any of these undertakings. If we are unsuccessful at some or all of these undertakings, our business, prospects, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We will need to secure additional financing to support our planned operations. We will require additional funds for our anticipated operations and if we are not successful in securing additional financing, we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to avoid insolvency, including arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. We are an early-stage company with an unproven business strategy and may never achieve commercialization of our research tools and therapeutic products or profitability. Our strategy of using our research tools for the collaborative development of therapeutic products is unproven. Our success will depend upon our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements on favorable terms, to determine which research tools and therapeutic products have potential value, and to select an appropriate commercialization strategy for each research tool and potential therapeutic product we or our collaborators choose to pursue. If we are not successful in implementing our strategy to commercialize our research tools and potential therapeutic products, we may never achieve, maintain or increase profitability. Our success and our collaborators’ ability to sell therapeutic products will depend to a large extent upon reimbursement from health care insurance companies. Our success may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of therapeutic products and related treatments will be available from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, 12 Table of Contents private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party health care payers to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we or our collaborators seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party insurance coverage may not be available for us or our collaborative partners to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on investment in product development. Our research tools are new and unproven and may not allow us or our collaborators to develop successful commercial products Our research tools involve new and unproven approaches. We have not proven that our research tools will enable us or our collaborators to identify therapeutic products with commercial potential, or to develop or commercialize such therapeutic products. Even if we or our collaborators are successful in identifying therapeutic products based on discoveries made using our research tools, we or our collaborators may not be able to discover or develop commercially viable products. To date, no one has developed or commercialized any therapeutic or other life science product based on our research tools. If our research tools do not assist in the discovery and development of such therapeutic products, our current and potential collaborators may lose confidence in us and our research tools and our business may suffer as a result. If our collaborators, licensees and customers do not successfully develop or commercialize therapeutic or other life science products using our research tools, we may not generate revenues from those customers. In addition, we may experience unforeseen technical complications, unrecognized defects and limitations in the productions of our research tools. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of those tools, substantially increase the anticipated cost of manufacturing them or prevent us from implementing research projects at high efficiency levels. Our products and services are subject to the risks associated with new and rapidly evolving technologies. Our proprietary tissue creation technology, drug discovery and research tools are subject to the risks associated with new, rapidly evolving technologies. In addition, the process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or acceptable new products that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive. The commercialization of therapeutic or other life science products developed using our research tools is subject to a variety of risks. Development of therapeutic and other life science products based on our or our collaborators’ use of our technologies will be subject to risks of failure inherent in their development or commercial viability. These risks include the possibility that any such products will: • fail to be found through the use of research tools; • be found to be toxic; • be found to be ineffective; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a large scale; • be economically infeasible to market; 13 Table of Contents • fail to be developed prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors; or • be impossible to market because they infringe the proprietary rights of third parties or compete with superior products marketed by third parties. We expect that our drug discovery collaborative partners or other clients that utilize our research tools will be required to submit their research for regulatory review in order to proceed with human testing of drug candidates. This review by the FDA and other regulatory agencies may result in timeline setbacks or complete rejection of an application to begin human studies, such as an Investigative New Drug (IND) application. Should our collaborative partners or other clients face such setbacks, we would be at risk of not being paid if there were agreed upon milestone and royalty payments. The risks of non-approval for our partners or other clients will include the inherent risks of unfavorable regulator opinion of a drug candidate’s safety or efficacy, as well as the risk that the data generated by our platform technology is not found to be suitable to support the safety or efficacy of the drug. In addition, our platform technology is subject to the requirements of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) to provide suitable data for INDs and other regulatory filings; no regulatory review of data from this platform has yet been conducted and there is no guarantee that our technology will be acceptable under GLP. If we are unable to enter into or maintain strategic collaborations with third parties, we may have difficulty selling our research tools and therapeutic products and we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to develop, obtain approvals for or commercialize potential therapeutic products based on our technology, we must enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize these products. If we are not able to enter into these arrangements or implement our strategy to develop and commercialize therapeutic and other life science products based upon our research tools, we may not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. Additionally, we may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot control our collaborators’ allocation of resources or the amount of time that our collaborators devote to developing our programs or potential products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with our collaborators typically allow them significant discretion in electing whether to pursue product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of the products they may develop with the help of our technology. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborators may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, we cannot be certain that our collaborators will choose to develop and commercialize these products or that we will realize any milestone payments, royalties and other payments to which we may become entitled. In addition, if a partner is involved in a business combination, such as a merger or acquisition, or if a partner changes its business focus, its performance pursuant to its agreement with us may suffer and, as a result, we may not generate any revenues from royalty, milestone and similar provisions that may be included in our collaborative agreement with that partner. Any termination or breach by or conflict with our collaborators or licensees could harm our business. If we or any of our collaborators or licensees fail to renew or terminate any of our collaboration or license agreements or if either party fails to satisfy its obligations under any of our collaboration or license agreements or complete them in a timely manner, we could lose significant sources of revenue, which could result in volatility in our future revenue. In addition, our agreements with our collaborators and licensees may have provisions that give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties. These and other possible disagreements could lead to 14 Table of Contents termination of the agreement or delays in collaborative research, development, supply or commercialization of certain products, or could require or result in litigation or arbitration. Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators over rights to our intellectual property or our rights to share in any of the future revenues of products developed by our collaborators. These kinds of disagreements could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Any such conflicts with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and could have a negative impact on our relationship with existing collaborators, adversely affecting our business and revenues. Finally, any of our collaborations or license agreements may prove to be unsuccessful. Our collaborators could develop competing research, reducing the available pool of potential collaborators and increasing competition, which may adversely affect our business and revenues. Our collaborators and potential collaborators could develop research tools similar to our own, reducing our pool of possible collaborative parties and increasing competition. Any of these developments could harm our product and technology development efforts, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may pursue opportunities in fields that could conflict with those of our collaborators. Developing products that compete with our collaborators’ or potential collaborators’ products could preclude us from entering into future collaborations with our collaborators or potential collaborators. Any of these developments could harm our product development efforts and could adversely affect our business and revenues. If restrictions on reimbursements and health care reform limit our collaborators’ actual or potential financial returns on therapeutic products that they develop based on our platform technology, our collaborators may reduce or terminate their collaborations with us. Our collaborators’ abilities to commercialize therapeutic and other life science products that are developed through the research tools or services that we provide may depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate payments for these products will be available from government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations, and other third-party payors. These payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic and other life science products, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available for these products. In recent years, officials have made numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. These proposals included measures to limit or eliminate payments for some medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals and other medical products to government control. Government and other third-party payors increasingly attempt to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of payments of newly approved health care products. In some cases, they may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for disease indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. Governments may adopt future legislative proposals and federal, state or private payors for healthcare goods and services may take action to limit their payments for goods and services. Any of these events could limit our ability to form collaborations or collaborators’ and our ability to commercialize therapeutic products successfully. We and our collaborators are subject to extensive and uncertain regulatory requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all, for products that we identify or develop. Therapeutic and other life science products are subject to an extensive, lengthy and uncertain regulatory approval process by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable agencies in other countries. The regulation of new products is extensive, and the required process of laboratory testing and human studies is lengthy and expensive. The burden of these regulations will fall on our collaborating partners, or may be shared with us, to the extent that we are developing proprietary products that are the result of a collaboration effort. The burden of these regulations will fall on us to the extent we are developing proprietary products on our own. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain FDA approvals for those products in a timely manner, or at all. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Even if we obtain FDA regulatory approvals, the FDA extensively regulates manufacturing, labeling, distributing, marketing, promotion and advertising after product approval. Moreover, several of our product development areas may involve relatively new technology and have not been the subject of extensive product testing in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these products and related clinical procedures remain uncertain and the products themselves may be subject to substantial review by foreign governmental regulatory authorities that could prevent or delay approval in those countries. Regulatory requirements ultimately imposed on our products could limit our ability to test, manufacture and, ultimately, commercialize our products and thereby could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends upon the success of our research tools as alternatives to current research tools. Our success depends on commercial acceptance of our research tools. We believe that adoption of our research tools by our current and future collaborators will be essential for commercial acceptance of our research tools. We cannot assure you that our research tools will be adopted, or if adopted, that they will be broadly accepted by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies or various academic institutions. We believe that recommendations by health care professionals and health care payors will be essential for commercial acceptance of our collaborators’ or our products. We cannot assure you that the products we or our collaborators develop will achieve commercial acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors. Our inability to achieve commercial acceptance would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our research tools and products. The biotechnology industry is subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, experience and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, designing and implementing clinical trials; regulatory processes and approvals; production and manufacturing; and sales and marketing of approved products than we have experienced to date. Principal competitive factors in our industry include the quality and breadth of technology; management and the execution of strategy; skill and experience of employees, ability to recruit and retain skilled, experienced employees; intellectual property portfolio; the range of capabilities, including target identification, validation, drug and device discovery, development, manufacturing, marketing; and the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities. Large and established companies compete in the biotech market. In particular, these companies have greater experience and expertise than we have in securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts, conducting testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals to market products, manufacturing such products on a broad scale and marketing approved products than we have currently. Smaller or early-stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established biotech or other companies, or the obtaining of substantial private financing. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel. In order to effectively compete, we will have to make substantial investments in development, testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing or partner with one or more established companies. There is no assurance that we or our collaborators will be successful in commercializing and gaining significant market share for any 16 Table of Contents products developed in part through use of our technology. Our technologies, products and services also may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive as a result of products and services introduced by our competitors. We may have product liability exposure from the sale of our research tools and therapeutic products or the services we provide. We may have exposure to claims for product liability. Product liability coverage is expensive and sometimes difficult to obtain. Given our operations to date, we currently do not maintain any product liability insurance coverage. At such point that we determine it is prudent to obtain this insurance, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. There can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage will extend to other products in the future. Any product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy all liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim would be time-consuming and expensive, may damage our reputation in the marketplace, and would likely divert management’s attention. The near and long-term viability of our products and services will depend on our ability to successfully establish strategic relationships. The near and long-term viability of our products and services will depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with biotechnology companies, pharmaceutical companies, universities, hospitals, insurance companies and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of collaborations on acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products or generate sufficient revenue to fund further research and development efforts. Even if we establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product or service candidates for several reasons both within and outside of our control. Although our current focus is on providing drug discovery services and research tools in the research setting, we may develop tissue therapeutic products and seek approval to sell them as medical care. Before we could begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we or our manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices. If our manufacturers fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell products. We will be dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our future laboratory testing, animal and human studies. We will be dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our laboratory testing, animal and human studies with respect to therapeutic tissues and other life science products that we may develop in the future. If we are unable to obtain any necessary testing services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. If we rely on third parties for laboratory testing and/or animal and human studies, we may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete testing activities on schedule or when we so request. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct our laboratory testing and/or animal and human studies. We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with 17 Table of Contents regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our future product candidates. We may require access to a constant, steady, reliable supply of products. To the extent that we develop products for sale, we may be required to complete clinical trials before we can offer such products for sale. Commercialization of products will require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. If we are unable to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, then we will need to rely on third parties. These third-party manufacturers must also receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial products. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. Furthermore, we would likely have to enter into a technical transfer agreement and share our know-how with the third party manufacturer. We may rely on third-party suppliers for some our materials. We may rely on third-party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials we require in our drug discovery and research tool businesses as well as for the manufacture of any product candidates that we may develop in the future. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. Any delay or interruption could negatively affect our operations. Violation of government regulations or quality programs could harm demand for our products or services, and the evolving nature of government regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. To the extent that our collaborators or customers use our products in the manufacturing or testing processes for their drug and medical device products, such end-products or services may be regulated by the FDA under Quality System Regulations (QSR) or the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) under Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA’88) regulations. The customer is ultimately responsible for QSR, CLIA’88 and other compliance requirements for their products; however, we may agree to comply with certain requirements, and, if we fail to do so, we could lose sales and customers and be exposed to product liability claims. Products that are intended for the diagnosis or treatment of disease are subject to government regulation. Our drug discovery and research tool offerings are currently intended for research or investigational uses. Research uses are not subject to FDA or premarket approval or other regulatory requirements. Investigational uses are not subject to FDA premarket approval or most regulatory requirements, but are subject to limited regulatory controls for entities conducting investigational studies. As we continue to adapt and develop parts of our product line in the future, including tissue-based products in the field of regenerative medicine, the manufacture and marketing of our products will become subject to government regulation in the United States and other countries. In the United States and most foreign countries, we will be required to complete rigorous preclinical testing and extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. 18 Table of Contents The steps required by the FDA before our proposed products may be marketed in the United States include performance of preclinical (animal and laboratory) tests; submissions to the FDA of an IDE (Investigational Device Exemption), NDA (New Drug Application), or BLA (Biologic License Application) which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product in the intended target population; performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use; Pre-Market Approval Application (PMA); and FDA approval of the PMA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of such regulatory authorities. The start of clinical trials can be delayed or take longer than anticipated for many and varied reasons, many of which are outside of our control. Safety concerns may emerge that could lengthen the ongoing trials or require additional trials to be conducted. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing, and we may be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which we may be unable to do without conducting further clinical studies. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to our distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved devices or drugs may not be approved, which could limit our revenues. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our products are not approved, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our business will be adversely affected. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, such approval is likely to limit the indicated uses for which it may be marketed, and the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. Failure to comply with any post-approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, substantial fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenues and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or our manufacture are subsequently discovered and we cannot provide assurance that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory approval. With the use of any treatment by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the treatment itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the treatment become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, possibly subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. 19 Table of Contents We will depend on our patent portfolio, our licensed technology and other trade secrets in the conduct of our business and must ensure that we do not violate the patent or intellectual rights of others. Our success in large part depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and other trade secrets. To do so, we and our licensors must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue trade secret and other intellectual property protection. We also must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or allowing third parties to infringe our rights. Our research, development and commercialization activities, including any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by third parties and as to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. There may be rights that we are not aware of, including applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or biologic treatment candidate that is the subject of the suit. In addition, competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement for unauthorized use. This can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent owned by us is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover our technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at the risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. A significant portion of our sales are dependent upon our customers’ capital spending policies and research and development budgets, and government funding of research and development programs at universities and other organizations, which are each subject to significant and unexpected decrease. Our prospective customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, and private research foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, patent expirations, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions, and institutional and governmental budgetary policies, including but not limited to reductions in grants for research by educational institutions. In addition, our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding of research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to the previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the United States government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced National Institute of Health and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget 20 Table of Contents proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products or services, which could seriously damage our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Liquidity Risks Our securities are a “Penny Stock” and subject to specific rules governing their sale to investors. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to our common stock, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information, investment experience and objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors sell shares of our common stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The Company has a limited trading history and there is no assurance that an active market in the Company’s common stock will continue at present levels or increase in the future. There is limited trading activity in our common stock and there is no assurance that an active market will develop in the future. Although our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQX, the Company has a limited trading history and there is no assurance that an active market in the Company’s common stock will continue at present levels or increase in the future. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock. There can be no assurance that a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future, or if one should develop, there is no assurance that it will be sustained. This factor limits the liquidity of our common stock, and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to raise additional capital. Compliance with the reporting requirements of federal securities laws can be expensive. We are a public reporting company in the United States, and accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, and the compliance obligations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders are substantial. In addition, we will incur substantial expenses in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and related documents with respect to the registration of resales of the common stock underlying the Original Warrants. 21 Table of Contents Applicable regulatory requirements, including those contained in and issued under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect the management of its business and its ability to obtain or retain listing of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain those qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for effective management because of the rules and regulations that govern publicly held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications by principal executive officers. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has resulted in the issuance of a series of related rules and regulations and the strengthening of existing rules and regulations by the SEC, as well as the adoption of new and more stringent rules by the stock exchanges. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting roles as directors and executive officers. Further, some of these changes heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain listing of our shares of common stock on any stock exchange (assuming we elect to seek and are successful in obtaining such listing) could be adversely affected. We may have undisclosed liabilities and any such liabilities could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even though our pre-merger assets and liabilities were transferred to the Split-Off Shareholders in the Split-Off, there can be no assurance that we will not be liable for any or all of such liabilities. Any such liabilities that survived the Merger could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations upon our acceptance of responsibility for such liabilities. The transfer of the operating assets and liabilities to PSOS, coupled with the Split-Off of PSOS, will result in taxable income to us in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the assets transferred and the pre-merger tax basis of the assets. Any gain recognized, to the extent not offset by our net operating loss carryforward, if any, will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or detect fraud. Consequently, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and this may decrease the trading price of our stock. We must maintain effective internal controls to provide reliable financial reports and detect fraud. We have been assessing our internal controls to identify areas that need improvement. We are in the process of implementing changes to internal controls, but have not yet completed implementing these changes. Failure to implement these changes to our internal controls or any others that it identifies as necessary to maintain an effective system of internal controls could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Any such loss of confidence would have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which could lead to losses by investors and costly securities litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • announcements of developments by us or our competitors; • the timing of IDE and/or NDA approval, the completion and/or results of our clinical trials; • regulatory actions regarding our products; 22 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting the our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • sales of the our common stock or other securities in the open market; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against such a company. Litigation initiated against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQX. Our common stock is controlled by insiders. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 16% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and Dr. Gabor Forgacs, the father of one of our directors, beneficially owns another 9.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Although we are not aware of any voting arrangements between our officers, directors and Dr. Forgacs, such concentrated control may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Investors who acquire our common stock may have no effective voice in the management of our operations. Sales by our insiders or affiliates, along with any other market transactions, could affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of our business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment. 23 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 