Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk and should be regarded as speculative. As a result, the purchase of our common stock should be considered only by persons who can reasonably afford to lose their entire investment. Before you elect to purchase our common stock, you should carefully consider the risk and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information incorporated herein by reference. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or which we currently believe are immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In any case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, and expect to incur significant additional operating losses. We were incorporated in 2007, and opened our laboratories in San Diego, California in January 2009. Since our incorporation, we have focused primarily on the development of our platform technology and the development of our biological research, drug discovery and therapeutic products and services based on that technology. In April 2014, we announced that we had begun to sign contracts for research services using our 3D Human Liver Tissue product, with the full commercial launch of our 3D Human Liver Tissue product scheduled to occur before the end of the calendar 2014. As a result, as of March 31, 2014, we had not generated revenues from our planned principal operation and continue to be considered a development-stage company. Because of our limited operating history, there is limited historical financial or other information upon which to base an evaluation of our performance and future prospects. Our future prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of operations and competing in new and rapidly developing technology areas. We have generated operating losses since we began operations, including $20.6 million, $9.3 million and $2.3 million for the years ended March 31, 2014, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and $4.0 million and $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively. As of March 31, 2014, we had incurred cumulative operating losses of $38.3 million and cumulative net losses totaling $92.2 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses over the next several years as our research, development, and commercial activities increase. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability will depend on, among other things, successfully developing drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products that are more effective than existing technologies; entering into collaborative relationships with strategic partners; obtaining any necessary regulatory approval for our drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products; entering into successful manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with third parties or developing an effective sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize any future tools and products; and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities and business plan. We might not succeed at any of these undertakings. If we are unsuccessful at some or all of these undertakings, our business, prospects, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We are an early-stage company with an unproven business strategy, and may never achieve profitability. We are in the early stages of using our proprietary platform technology to develop and commercialize functional human tissues that can be employed in drug discovery and development, biological research, and potentially as therapeutic implants for the treatment of damaged or degenerating tissues and organs. Our success will depend upon the commercial viability of our platform technology, as well as on our ability to determine which drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products can be successfully developed with our platform technology. Our success will also depend on our ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals for our tools and products, to enter into additional collaboration agreements on favorable terms and to select an appropriate commercialization strategy for the tools and products we or our collaborators choose to pursue. If we are not successful in implementing our development and commercialization strategies, which are new and unproven, we may never achieve profitability, or if we achieve profitability, be able to maintain or increase our profitability. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to correctly estimate our future revenues and operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls, and we may need to secure additional financing. We may not correctly predict the amount or timing of future revenues and our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • our expectations regarding revenues from sales of our tools and products and from collaborations with third parties; • the time and resources required to develop our drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products; • the time and cost of obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals; • the cost to create effective sales and marketing capabilities; • the expenses we incur to maintain and improve our platform technology; • the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. In addition, our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from sales of our tools and products and from collaborations with third parties. However, we may not correctly predict the amount or timing of future revenues. In addition, we may not be able to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in our revenues. As a result, a significant shortfall in our planned revenues could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In such case, we may be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into other commercial arrangements, including relationships with corporate and other partners, to secure the additional financial resources to support our development efforts and future operations. Depending upon market conditions, we may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional financing, or enter into relationships with others that provide additional financial resources, we will not be able to develop our technology and products on our planned timeline, or at all, and we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to avoid insolvency, including arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. In such event, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our platform technology and our drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products are new and unproven. Our platform technology, as well as our drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products, involve new and unproven models and approaches. We have not proven that our platform technology will enable us or our collaborators to develop effective or competitive drug discovery and biological research tools and products. Nor have we proven that any of our existing or planned tools or products will enable our customers to conduct drug discovery and biological research more effectively than through the use of existing technologies. Our success depends on commercial acceptance of our drug discovery and biological research tools and products. Even if we or our collaborators are successful in our respective efforts, we or our collaborators may not be able to discover or develop commercially viable therapeutics or other products therefrom. To date, no one has developed or commercialized any therapeutic or other life science products based on our drug discovery and biological research tools and products. If our drug discovery and biological research products and tools do not assist in the discovery and development of such therapeutic or life science products, our current and potential collaborators may lose confidence in us and our drug discovery and biological research tools and products. Our 13 Table of Contents inability to successfully develop effective and competitive drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products and achieve and maintain commercial acceptance for those tools and products would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology, tools and products are subject to the risks associated with new and rapidly evolving technologies and industries. Our proprietary tissue creation technology and our drug discovery, biological research and therapeutic tools and products are subject to the risks associated with new, rapidly evolving technologies and industries. We may experience unforeseen technical complications, unrecognized defects and limitations in the development and commercialization of our tools and products. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of those tools and products, substantially increase the anticipated cost of manufacturing them or prevent us or our collaborators from implementing their drug discovery or biological research projects successfully or at all. In addition, the process of developing new technologies, tools and products is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing tools and products or acceptable new tools and products that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our tools and products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive. Our ability to successfully commercialize any drug discovery, biological research or therapeutic tools or products we develop is subject to a variety of risks. The commercialization of our drug discovery and biological research tools and products are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: • failing to develop tools or products that are effective and competitive; • failing to demonstrate the commercial and technical viability of any tools or products that we successfully develop or otherwise failing to achieve market acceptance of such tools or products; • failing to be cost effective; • failing to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals; • being difficult or impossible to manufacture on a large scale; • being unable to establish and maintain supply and manufacturing relationships with reliable third parties; • failing to develop our tools and products before the successful marketing of similar tools and products by competitors; • being unable to hire and retain qualified personnel; and • infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or competing with superior products marketed by third parties. If any of these or any other risks and uncertainties occur, our efforts to commercialize our drug discovery and biological research tools and products may be unsuccessful, which would harm our business and results of operations. The near and long-term viability of our products and services will depend on our ability to successfully establish strategic relationships. The near and long-term viability of our products and services will depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with biotechnology companies, pharmaceutical companies, universities, hospitals, insurance companies and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our technology 14 Table of Contents or product offerings or our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of collaborations on acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products or generate sufficient revenue to fund further research and development efforts. Even if we establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product or service candidates for several reasons both within and outside of our control. We cannot control our collaborators’ allocation of resources or the amount of time that our collaborators devote to developing our programs or potential products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our existing research and collaboration agreements typically allow our collaborators to obtain the options to license or exclusive rights to negotiate licenses to our new technologies. Our collaborators may have significant discretion in electing whether to pursue product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of the products they may develop with the help of our technology. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborators may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, we cannot be certain that our collaborators will choose to develop and commercialize these products or that we will realize any future milestone payments, royalties and other payments provided for in the agreements with our collaborators. In addition, if a collaborator is involved in a business combination, such as a merger or acquisition, or if a collaborator changes its business focus, its performance pursuant to its agreement with us may suffer. As a result, we may not generate any revenues from royalty, milestone and similar provisions that may be included in our collaborative agreements. In addition, our collaborative partners or other customers that utilize our research tools will be required to submit their research for regulatory review in order to proceed with human testing of drug candidates. This review by the FDA and other regulatory agencies may result in timeline setbacks or complete rejection of an application to begin human studies, such as an Investigative New Drug (IND) application, or the ultimate failure to receive the regulatory approval required to commercialize the drug candidate or product. Should our collaborative partners or other customers face such setbacks, we would be at risk of not earning any future milestone or royalty payments. Any termination or breach by or conflict with our collaborators or licensees could harm our business. If we or any of our existing or future collaborators or licensees fail to renew or terminate any of our collaboration or license agreements, or if either party fails to satisfy its obligations under any of our collaboration or license agreements or complete them in a timely manner, we could lose significant sources of revenue, which could result in volatility in our future revenues. In addition, our agreements with our collaborators and licensees may have provisions that give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties. These and other possible disagreements could lead to termination of the agreement or delays in collaborative research, development, supply or commercialization of certain products, or could require or result in litigation or arbitration. Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators over rights to our intellectual property or our rights to share in any of the future revenues of products developed by our collaborators. These kinds of disagreements could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Any such conflicts with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and could have a negative impact on our relationship with existing collaborators, adversely affecting our business and revenues. Finally, any of our collaborations or license agreements may prove to be unsuccessful. Our collaborators could develop competing research, reducing the available pool of potential collaborators and increasing competition, which may adversely affect our business and revenues. Our collaborators and potential collaborators could develop research tools similar to our own, reducing our pool of possible collaborative parties and increasing competition. Any of these developments could harm our product and technology development efforts, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may pursue 15 Table of Contents opportunities in fields that could conflict with those of our collaborators. Developing products that compete with our collaborators’ or potential collaborators’ products could preclude us from entering into future collaborations with our collaborators or potential collaborators. Any of these developments could harm our product development efforts and could adversely affect our business and revenues. We face intense competition which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our research tools and products. The biotechnology industry is subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, experience and expertise in the following areas than we do: • research and technology development; • product identification and development; • regulatory processes and approvals; • production and manufacturing; • securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts; and • sales and marketing of products and technologies. Principal competitive factors in our industry include the quality and breadth of technology; management and the execution of strategy; skill and experience of employees, including the ability to recruit and retain skilled, experienced employees; intellectual property portfolio; range of capabilities, including product identification, development, manufacturing and marketing; and the availability of substantial capital resources to fund these activities. In order to effectively compete, we will need to make substantial investments in our research and technology development, product identification and development, testing and regulatory approval, manufacturing and sales and marketing activities. There is no assurance that we will be successful in commercializing and gaining significant market share for any products developed in part through use of our technology. Our technologies, products and services also may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive as a result of products and services introduced by our competitors. We may have product liability exposure from the sale of our research tools and therapeutic products or the services we provide. We may have exposure to claims for product liability. Product liability coverage is expensive and sometimes difficult to obtain. Given our operations to date, we currently do not maintain any product liability insurance coverage. At such point that we determine it is prudent to obtain this insurance, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. There can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage will extend to other products in the future. Any product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy all liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim would be time-consuming and expensive, may damage our reputation in the marketplace, and would likely divert management’s attention. We may be dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our future laboratory testing, animal and human studies. We may be dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our laboratory testing, animal and human studies with respect to therapeutic tissues and other life science products that we may develop in the 16 Table of Contents future. If we are unable to obtain any necessary testing services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. If we rely on third parties for laboratory testing and/or animal and human studies, we may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete testing activities on schedule or when we so request. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct our laboratory testing and/or animal and human studies. We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our future product candidates. We will require access to a constant, steady, reliable supply of human cells to successfully commercialize our tools and products. Commercialization of our tools and products will require that we have access to a constant, steady and reliable supply of human cells. We will also require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our tools and products. If we are unable to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, our business and future results will suffer. We may rely on third-party suppliers for some of our materials. We may rely on third-party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials we require in our drug discovery and biological research products and tool businesses as well as for the manufacture of any therapeutic product candidates that we may develop in the future. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. Any delay or interruption could negatively affect our operations. A significant portion of our sales will be dependent upon our customers’ capital spending policies and research and development budgets, and government funding of research and development programs at universities and other organizations, which are each subject to significant and unexpected decrease. Our prospective customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, and private research foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, patent expirations, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions, and institutional and governmental budgetary policies, including but not limited to reductions in grants for research by federal and state agencies as a result of the current budget crises and budget reduction measures. In addition, our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding of research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to the previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to 17 Table of Contents various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the United States government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Current steps to reduce the federal budget deficit include reduced National Institute of Health and other research and development allocations. The prolonged or increased shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products or services, which could seriously damage our business. An inability to manage our planned growth or expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business has grown rapidly, and we expect this growth to continue as we expand our ability to develop and commercialize functional human tissues. The rapid expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. To effectively manage our operations and growth, we must continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. In addition, our management will need to continue to successfully: • expand and our research and product development efforts; • implement and expand our sales, marketing and customer support programs; • expand, train and manage our employee base; and • effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. We may not manage our planned growth and expansion successfully, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Government Regulation Violation of government regulations or quality programs could harm demand for our products or services, and the evolving nature of government regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. To the extent that our collaborators or customers use our products in the manufacturing or testing processes for their drug and medical device products, such end-products or services may be regulated by the FDA under Quality System Regulations (QSR) or the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) under Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA’88) regulations. The customer is ultimately responsible for QSR, CLIA’88 and other compliance requirements for their products. However, we may agree to comply with certain requirements, and, if we fail to do so, we could lose sales and our collaborators or customers and be exposed to product liability claims. In addition, our platform technology is subject to the requirements of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) to provide suitable data for INDs and other regulatory filings. No regulatory review of data from our platform technology has yet been conducted and there is no guarantee that our technology will be acceptable under GLP. As a result, the violation of government regulations or quality programs could harm demand for our products or services, and the evolving nature of government regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. Any therapeutic implants we develop will be subject to extensive, lengthy and uncertain regulatory requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all. Any therapeutic and other life science products we develop will be subject to extensive, lengthy and uncertain regulatory approval process by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable agencies in other 18 Table of Contents countries. The regulation of new products is extensive, and the required process of laboratory testing and clinical studies is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain FDA approvals for any therapeutic products we develop in a timely manner, or at all. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Even if we obtain FDA regulatory approvals, the FDA extensively regulates manufacturing, labeling, distributing, marketing, promotion and advertising after product approval. Moreover, several of our product development areas may involve relatively new technologies and have not been the subject of extensive laboratory testing and clinical studies. The regulatory requirements governing these products and related clinical procedures remain uncertain and the products themselves may be subject to substantial review by the FDA and other foreign governmental regulatory authorities that could prevent or delay approval in the United States and any other foreign country. Regulatory requirements ultimately imposed on our products could limit our ability to test, manufacture and, ultimately, commercialize our products and thereby could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to adapt and develop parts of our product line in the future, including tissue-based products in the field of regenerative medicine, the manufacture and marketing of our products will become subject to government regulation in the United States and other countries. In the United States and most foreign countries, we will be required to complete rigorous preclinical testing and extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. The steps required by the FDA before our proposed products may be marketed in the United States include performance of preclinical (animal and laboratory) tests; submissions to the FDA of an IDE (Investigational Device Exemption), NDA (New Drug Application), or BLA (Biologic License Application) which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product in the intended target population; performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use; Pre-Market Approval Application (PMA); and FDA approval of the PMA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of such regulatory authorities. The start of clinical trials can be delayed or take longer than anticipated for many and varied reasons, many of which are outside of our control. Safety concerns may emerge that could lengthen the ongoing trials or require additional trials to be conducted. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing, and we may be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which we may be unable to do without conducting further clinical studies. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to our distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved devices or drugs may not be approved, which could limit our revenues. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our products are not approved, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our business will be adversely affected. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, such approval is likely to limit the indicated uses for which it may be marketed, and the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. Failure to comply with any post-approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, substantial fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenues and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or our manufacturer are subsequently discovered and 19 Table of Contents we cannot provide assurance that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory approval. With the use of any treatment by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the treatment itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the treatment become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, possibly subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If restrictions on reimbursements and health care reform limit our collaborators’ actual or potential financial returns on therapeutic products that they develop based on our platform technology, our collaborators may reduce or terminate their collaborations with us. Our collaborators’ abilities to commercialize therapeutic and other life science products that are developed through the research tools or services that we provide may depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate payments for these products will be available from government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations, and other third-party payers. These payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic and other life science products, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available for these products. In recent years, officials have made numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. These proposals included measures to limit or eliminate payments for some medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals and other medical products to government control. Government and other third-party payers increasingly attempt to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of payments of newly approved health care products. In some cases, they may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for disease indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. Governments may adopt future legislative proposals and federal, state or private payers for healthcare goods and services may take action to limit their payments for goods and services. Any of these events could limit our ability to form collaborations or collaborators’ and our ability to commercialize therapeutic products successfully. We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We will depend on our patent portfolio and our licensed technology in the conduct of our business. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies, intellectual property and potential products in the United States and other countries. To do so, we and our collaborators and licensors must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue other intellectual property protection. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. Moreover, the patent positions of many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and have in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, we cannot guarantee that: • any patent applications filed by us will issue as patents; 20 Table of Contents • third parties will not challenge our proprietary rights, and if challenged that a court or an administrative board of a patent office will hold that our patents are valid and enforceable; • third parties will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies by inventing around our claims; • any patents issued to us will cover our technology and products as ultimately developed; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. There are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, President Obama signed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (“AIA”) which codifies several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a “first-to-invent” to a “first-inventor-to-file” system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, eventually eliminating interference proceedings while maintaining derivation actions, and creating a new set of procedures to challenge patents in the PTO after they have issued. The effects of these changes are currently uncertain as the PTO has recently implemented regulations related to these changes and the courts have yet to address many of these provisions in the context of a dispute. Further, we have not assessed the applicability of the act and new regulations to the specific patents discussed in this document. In addition, the PTO, like many foreign governmental patent agencies, requires compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process and/or post-grant. There are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements, for example, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Certain foreign jurisdictions have an absolute requirement of novelty that renders any public disclosure of an invention immediately fatal to patentability in such jurisdictions. Therefore, there is a risk that we may not be able to protect some of our intellectual property in the United States or abroad due to disclosures, which we may not be aware of, by our collaborators or licensors. Some foreign jurisdictions prohibit certain types of patent claims, such as “method-of-treatment/use-type” claims; thus, the scope of protection available to us in such jurisdictions is limited. Moreover, filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our potential products and technologies throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not sought or obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our future products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of 21 Table of Contents competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. We may be involved in lawsuits or other proceedings to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. Or, our licensors may breach or otherwise prematurely terminate the provisions of our license agreements and continue to improperly use our technology. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our collaborators or licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, our licensors may retain certain rights to use technologies licensed by us for research purposes. Patent disputes can take years to resolve, can be very costly and can result in loss of rights, injunctions and substantial penalties. Moreover, patent disputes and related proceedings can distract management’s attention and interfere with running the business. Furthermore, because of the potential for substantial discovery in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments which could harm our business. We cannot assure you that our technology or any of our current or future product candidates will not infringe existing or future patents. Because we have not conducted a formal freedom to operate analysis for patents related to our technology, we may not be aware of patents that have already issued that a third party might assert are infringed by one of our current or future product candidates. Nevertheless, we are not aware of any issued patents that will prevent us from using our technology or marketing our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and may be confidential for eighteen months or more after filing, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that we may infringe by commercializing any of our current or future product candidates. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technology infringes upon these patents. Moreover, we may face claims from non-practicing entities, which have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patent portfolio may thus have no deterrent effect. We must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without breaching our patent license agreements. Our current and future research, development and commercialization activities, including any tools or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by third parties and as to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. As a result, we may be subject to third-party claims in the future against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney’s fees if we are found to be willfully infringing a third party’s patents. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on 22 Table of Contents acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are successful in defending such claims, infringement and other intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and divert management’s attention from our core business. Any of these events could harm our business significantly. Our current and future research, development and commercialization activities also must satisfy the obligations under our license agreements. Any disputes arising under our license agreements could be costly and distract our management from the conduct of our business. Moreover, premature termination of a license agreement could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to infringement claims against us, if third parties have prepared and filed patent applications in the United States that also claim technology to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the PTO to determine the priority of invention. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Third parties may also attempt to initiate reexamination, post grant review or inter partes review of our patents or those of our collaborators or licensors in the PTO. We may also become involved in similar opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or similar offices in other jurisdictions regarding our intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and potential products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for these breaches. Alternatively, if a third party alleges that any of our employees or consultants has breached confidentiality obligations to our benefit, we may have to defend against allegations of trade secret misappropriation. Enforcing or defending a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. Further, if any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent that competitor from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed. We rely in part on trademarks to distinguish our products and services from those of other entities. Trademarks may be opposed or cancelled and we may be involved in lawsuits or other proceedings to protect or enforce our trademarks. We rely on trademarks, in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions, to distinguish our products and services in the minds of consumers and our business partners from those of other entities. Third parties may challenge our pending trademark applications through opposition proceedings in the U.S., or comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, in which they seek to prevent registration of a mark. Our registered trademarks may be subject to cancellation proceedings in the U.S., or comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, in which a third party seeks to cancel an existing registration. To enforce our trademark rights, we may be involved in lawsuits or other proceedings which could be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Liquidity Risks We have a limited trading history and there is no assurance that an active market in our common stock will continue at present levels or increase in the future. There is limited trading history in our common stock, and although our common stock is now traded on the NYSE MKT, there is no assurance that an active market in our common stock will continue at present levels or increase in the future. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock. This factor limits the liquidity of our common stock, and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to raise additional capital. Compliance with the reporting requirements of federal securities laws can be expensive. We are a public reporting company in the United States, and accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including the compliance obligations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The costs of complying with the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws, including preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders, can be substantial. If we fail to comply with the rules of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 related to accounting controls and procedures, or, if we discover material weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control and accounting procedures, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities and our stock price could decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“the Act”) requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with this annual report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, the Act requires an attestation and report by our external auditing firm on our internal control over financial reporting. We believe our system and process evaluation and testing comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to satisfy the requirements in Section 404 in all future periods, especially as we grow our business. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NYSE MKT. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be required to incur significant additional financial and management resources to achieve compliance. We may have undisclosed liabilities and any such liabilities could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to our reverse merger in February 2012, the assets and liabilities of the public company shell we eventually merged into were transferred in a split-off transaction (the “Split-Off”) to a separate entity (the “Split-Off Entity”) owned by the then outstanding stockholders of the public company shell (the “Split-Off Stockholders”). Even though the pre-merger assets and liabilities were transferred to the Split-Off Entity in the Split-Off, there can be no assurance that we will not be liable for any or all of such liabilities. Any such liabilities that survived our reverse merger could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations upon our acceptance of responsibility for such liabilities. The transfer of the operating assets and liabilities to Split-Off Entity, coupled with the Split-Off, will result in taxable income to us in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the assets transferred and the pre-merger tax basis of the assets. Any gain recognized, to the extent not offset by our net operating loss carryforward, if any, will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. 24 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which could lead to losses by investors and costly securities litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • announcements of developments by us or our competitors; • regulatory actions regarding our products; • reduced government funding for research and development activities; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; • degree of coverage of securities analysts and reports and recommendations issued by securities analysts regarding our business; • volume fluctuations in the trading of our common stock; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against such a company. Litigation initiated against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. We are authorized to issue 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 31, 2014, there were an aggregate of 89,515,576 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. That total for our common stock includes 10,207,181 shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, and 1,194,756 shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our capital stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock in connection with presently outstanding warrants, hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of capital stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock is currently traded on the NYSE MKT. Our common stock is subject to trading risks created by the influence of third party investor websites. Our common stock is widely traded and held by retail investors, and these investors are subject to the influence of information provided by third party investor websites and independent authors distributing information on the 25 Table of Contents internet. This information has become influential because it is widely distributed and links to it appear as top company headlines on commonly used stock quote and finance websites, or through services such as Google alerts. These emerging information distribution models are a consequence of the emergence of the internet. Some information and content distribution is by individuals through platforms that mainly serve as hosts seeking advertising revenue. As such, we believe an incentive exists for these sites to increase advertising revenue by increasing page views, and for them to post or allow to be posted inflammatory information to achieve this end. It has been our experience that a significant portion of the information on these websites or distributed by independent authors about our Company is false or misleading, and occasionally, we believe, purposefully misleading. These sites and internet distribution strategies also create opportunity for individuals to pursue both “pump and dump” and “short and distort” strategies. We believe that many of these websites have little or no requirements for authors to have professional qualifications. While these sites sometimes require disclosure of stock positions by authors, as far as we are aware these sites do not audit the accuracy of such conflict of interest disclosures. We believe that many of these websites have few or lax editorial standards, and thin or non-existent editorial staffs. Despite our best efforts, we have not and may not be able in the future to obtain corrections to information provided on these websites about our Company, including both positive and negative information, and any corrections that are obtained may not be achieved prior to the majority of audience impressions being formed for a given article. These conditions create volatility and risk for holders of our common stock and should be considered by investors. We can make no guarantees that regulatory authorities will take action on these types of activities, and we cannot guarantee that legislators will act responsively, or ever act at all, to appropriately restrict the activities of these websites and authors. Our common stock is controlled by insiders. Our current executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 14% of our outstanding shares of common stock, as of March 31, 2014. Although we are not aware of any voting arrangements between our officers and directors, such concentrated control may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Investors who acquire our common stock may have no effective voice in the management of our operations. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of our business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. 26 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 