D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We have a history of net losses. For the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we had net losses from continuing operations of RMB11.5 million, RMB17.0 million and RMB34.2 million (US$5.7 million), respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of RMB524.3 million (US$86.6 million). We cannot anticipate when, if ever, we will become profitable. Although we have improved efficiency of our networks and operations and adopted related cost reduction measures, we cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve such efficiency or sustain such cost reductions. Furthermore, we expect our costs and expenses to increase as we continue to expand our business and operations. If we are unable to generate revenues that significantly exceed our costs and expenses, we may continue to incur losses in the future. We generate substantially all of our revenues from sales of content and application delivery total solutions, and the failure of the market for these services to expand as we expect or the reduction in spending on these services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our business. We have generated substantially all of our revenues from sales of content and application delivery total solutions. We expect such services to continue to be the primary source of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our success, therefore, depends on our customers’ continued and increasing reliance on the internet for delivery of services and applications and our ability to deliver these services and applications cost-effectively. Factors that may have a general tendency to limit or reduce the number of users relying on the internet for services and applications or the number of providers making services and applications available online would harm our business. As the content and application delivery services industry is still emerging, our success also depends on our ability to convince potential customers to entrust their services and applications to an external service provider, that content and application delivery technologies and services are valuable and that it is more cost-effective for them to utilize external services than for them to develop similar services in-house. A decline in the demand for content and application delivery services in general would negatively affect demand for our services. Even if demand for our services continues to grow, this demand may not grow as quickly as we anticipate. The influence of any of these factors may cause our current or potential customers to reduce their spending on our services, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our costs and expenses may increase, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot pass on the increased costs to our customers. We invest heavily in capital equipment and infrastructure to increase our network capacity. For example, we had capital expenditures of RMB56.7 million, RMB88.7 million and RMB139.6 million (US$23.1 million) in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, which relate to our additions of land use right, intangible assets, and property and equipment. In 2014 and beyond, we expect to increase our costs and expenses, including investments in infrastructure and additional bandwidth, servers and other equipment. Our capital expenditures are based upon our assumptions regarding the potential future demand. If we overestimate future demand for our services, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our capital expenditures and our results of operations may suffer dramatically. In addition, if our bandwidth and other third-party providers raise the prices of their services and products, we will incur increased costs in order to provide our services. If we cannot pass on the increased costs and expenses to our customers, or if our costs to deliver our services do not decline commensurate with any future declines in the prices we charge our customers, we may fail to achieve profitability. If we are unable to attract new customers or to retain existing customers, our revenues may decline. To increase our revenues, we plan to sell additional services to existing customers, encourage existing customers to increase their purchase volume and attract new customers. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to sell additional services to our current customers, retain our current customers or attract new customers. We typically sell our services pursuant to service agreements that are generally one year in duration. Although most of our service agreements contain renewal provisions, our customers have no obligation to renew the contracts after the expiration of their initial commitment period, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, some of our service agreements provide that customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements under certain circumstances. This, in addition to the changing competitive landscape in our market, means that we may not accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors and reductions in our customers’ spending levels. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, 19.0%, 16.8% and 11.0%, respectively, of our total number of customers decided not to renew their contracts with us. If we cannot attract a sufficient number of new customers, control our existing customer attrition rate, or increase the purchase volume of our existing customers to cover the loss of existing customers, our revenues may decline and our business will suffer. 5 Table of Contents We may lose customers if they elect to develop solutions internally for the delivery of their own content and applications. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own content and applications delivery service solutions rather than outsource these solutions to service providers like us. This is particularly true as our customers expand their operations and begin expending greater resources on delivering their internet services and applications using their own resources. For instance, our largest customer in 2009, Tencent, who contributed approximately 14.8% of our total net revenue in 2009, ceased to be our largest customer since 2010, partially due to its decision to develop its own in-house solutions. If we fail to offer services that are competitive to in-house developed solutions, we may continue to lose customers or fail to attract customers that develop their own solutions in-house, and our business and financial results would suffer. The decline in the price of our services could negatively impact our gross margins. The average prices we can charge for our content and application delivery total solutions have declined, and are expected to decline over time, as a result of, among other things, the increasing availability of bandwidth at reduced costs and existing and new competition in the marketplace. Also, we may be forced to reduce the price of our services due to reduced bargaining power with our customers. If the price that we are able to charge customers falls to a greater extent than we anticipate and we are not able to offset this decline with reduction in our cost of revenues, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our services to decline or become obsolete. Third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address internet services and applications delivery requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, the equivalent or superior to our services. For instance, companies are looking to offer internet-related solutions, such as peer-to-peer file sharing networks, to address certain content and application delivery needs. Our existing and future competitors may introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality, price or performance of our services. We may not anticipate such developments and our services may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ demand for our services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and results of operations. If we are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing services or fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our results of operations may suffer. The market for content and application delivery services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving customer needs and requirements, and frequent new product and service introductions. Our results of operations depend on our ability to develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain. We must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before we are able to develop services that are widely accepted by the market. For example, individuals are increasingly using mobile devices to access internet content. Our ability to provide new and innovative solutions to address challenges posed by mobile device users is important to our future growth potential. Furthermore, we may not successfully execute our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely manner, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. Failures in execution or market acceptance of new services we introduce could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do, which could lead to loss of market share, revenues and earnings. 6 Table of Contents The internet and internet-based services in China may fail to grow as quickly as expected. Our future success depends on the growth of the internet in China. In particular, our business strategy and growth depends on the continued development and utilization of internet-based services such as online games, rich media content, online advertising, e-commerce and mobile internet. Online games, rich media content, e-commerce and mobile internet are relatively new developments in China and may be impacted by regulatory changes in China. Our business prospects and future growth could suffer if the internet or the markets for these internet-based services in China fail to grow as quickly as anticipated. Furthermore, even if the internet and internet-based services in China grow as expected, we may fail to successfully implement our growth strategies, which could have a material adverse impact over our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our existing and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models which, if unsuccessful, could lead to a substantial decline in demand for our services. Because the proliferation of broadband internet connections and the subsequent monetization of internet services and applications are relatively recent phenomena in China, the business models of many of our existing and potential customers primarily focus on the delivery of internet content and applications to users and remain unproven. For example, user-generated content websites, media companies and online game operators have been among our customers and are pursuing emerging strategies for monetizing their internet services and applications or traffic on their websites. These companies will not continue to purchase our content and application delivery total solutions if their internet services or applications fail to generate a sufficient return on their investment or if their own business models fail to succeed. Moreover, some of our existing and potential customers are pursuing business in areas which have undefined regulatory parameters in China, and such companies face a risk of having their activities restricted or shut down for regulatory reasons. A reduction in spending on our services by our existing and potential customers or our customers’ inability or refusal to pay us due to their own financial condition or other reasons would harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from, these customers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, a relatively small number of customers typically accounts for a significant percentage of our revenue. Our five largest customers contributed 31.6%, 22.6% and 32.6% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In the past, our top five customers have continually changed, and we also have experienced significant fluctuations in our individual customers’ usage of our services. Our large customers may decrease the amount of services they purchase from us or may stop purchasing our services altogether as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors and reductions in our customers’ spending levels. Our operating costs, however, are relatively fixed in the near term. As a consequence, we may not be able to adjust our expenses in the short term to address the unanticipated loss of a large customer during any particular period. As such, we may experience significant and unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations which may cause us to not meet our expectations or those of stock market analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. 7 Table of Contents Our business substantially depends on telecommunications carriers and other third-party providers for communications and storage capacity. Any change that adversely affects our communications and storage capacity could result in interruptions in our services. Our business and operations are dependent upon telecommunications carriers and other third-party providers for communications and storage capacity, including bandwidth, optical fiber cable, servers and other equipment. We obtain bandwidth primarily from telecommunications carriers. We lease optical fiber cable to serve as part of our private transmission backbone from third-party providers. We purchase servers and other equipment from suppliers and deploy our servers in numerous third-party co-location facilities. In addition, we need access to end-user access networks operated by telecommunications carriers and internet service providers, or ISPs, in order to complete the delivery of internet content and applications to end-users. We believe that we currently have good business relationships with telecommunications carriers and major third-party providers, and we have access to adequate communications and storage capacity to provide our services. However, there can be no assurance that we will always be able to secure communications and storage capacity on commercially acceptable terms, and that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands or unplanned network interruptions. If we are unable to obtain transmission capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results could suffer. In the past, system disruptions in the networks of certain regional telecommunications carriers and ISPs have affected our ability to provide our services. Some telecommunications carriers or ISPs may also take measures, such as the deployment of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to networks operated by them. Telecommunications carriers and ISPs could also decide to limit or prohibit the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or charge additional fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. Third-party suppliers may not be able to meet our demand for servers or other equipment in a timely manner. In addition, as we deploy our servers in numerous third-party co-location facilities, any system outages or other disruptions in these third-party facilities could constrain our ability to deliver our services. Any of these interruptions, interferences or restrictions could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Since we currently derive substantially all of our revenues from customers in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese or global economy may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent customers are unable to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf due to an economic slowdown or otherwise, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver on their behalf. Such reductions in traffic would lead to a reduction in our revenues. Additionally, in economic downturns, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, slowdown in commerce over the internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. Suppliers on which we rely for servers, bandwidth, co-location and other services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. 8 Table of Contents We expect to continue to experience intense competition. We compete in a market that is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition. In China, we primarily compete with domestic content and application delivery service providers. Our primary domestic competitors include ChinaNetCenter, Dnion Technology and FastWeb, which was acquired by 21Vianet in 2012. In early 2014, Alibaba also announced the launch of AliCloud CDN commercial services to offer third-party CDN services. Although multinational companies currently do not have a significant presence in the content and application delivery services market in China, in part due to regulatory restrictions in China’s telecommunications sector, we may face competition from multinational companies if regulatory restrictions in China are lifted in the future. Also, as a result of the growth of the content delivery services market, a number of companies are currently attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Some of our current or potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may have stronger governmental support. Some of our competitors may offer lower prices on competing services in order to gain market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Furthermore, some of our current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage content providers from purchasing the services that we offer. Increased competition could result in price reductions and revenue decline, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable delivery of internet content and applications. Many of our customers depend on our services to operate their businesses. Consequently, any disruption of our services could have a material impact on our customers’ businesses. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, power losses and failure of our software or network. From time to time, we need to correct errors and defects in our software or in other aspects of our network. There may be errors and defects originating with third-party networks or software on which we rely that harm our ability to deliver our services. We may also experience disruptions caused by software viruses or other attacks by unauthorized users. Despite our significant capital investments, we may have insufficient communications and server capacity to address these or other disruptions, which could result in interruptions in our services. Any widespread interruption of the functioning of our networks and related services for any reason would reduce our revenues and could harm our business and financial results. If such a widespread interruption occurred or if we failed to deliver internet services and applications to users as expected during a high-profile media event or well-publicized circumstance, our reputation could be severely damaged. Moreover, any disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could disrupt our services, cause damage to our brand and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to cyber incidents, including but not limited to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents our cybersecurity measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions, malfunctions or disruptions to our operations. Our electronic data may also be vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and misappropriation, which may corrupt our electronic data. We have not experienced a major cybersecurity breach to date. However, if a major cybersecurity breach were to occur, the losses or liabilities associated with such breach could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate our exposure to these types of cybersecurity risks, but these measures do not guarantee that we will not in the future experience a major cybersecurity breach. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such cyber attacks or disruptions may deter customers from using our solutions or services and could result in our customers making claims for damages. As a result, we may be required to devote significant incremental amounts of resources to protect against the threat or perceived threat of these cybersecurity risks or to alleviate problems caused by cyber incidents, if and when they were to occur. 9 Table of Contents We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing network to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements. Our services are complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. Our network must perform well and be reliable in order for us to be successful. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more resources we will need to invest in additional network capacity and support. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase and lease of equipment and data centers and the upgrade of our technology and network to handle increased traffic over our network and to roll out new products and services. This expansion is expensive and complicated and could result in inefficiencies, operational failures or defects in our network and related software. If we do not expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and user experience could decline. These occurrences could damage our reputation and lead to a loss of current and potential customers. We must continuously upgrade our network in order to keep pace with our customers’ evolving demands. Cost increases or the failure to accommodate increased traffic or these evolving business demands without disruption could harm our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations in recent years and we anticipate further expansion in the future. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological, financial and other resources. Our planned expansion will also require us to maintain the consistency of our service offerings to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our service offerings. Our future results of operations depend to a large extent on our ability to manage this expansion and growth successfully. Risks that we face in undertaking this expansion include: · training new sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue; · controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; · implementing and enhancing our network; and · addressing new markets. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any difficulties identifying and consummating future acquisitions or integrating current and future acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Selective acquisitions and strategic investments form part of our strategy to further expand our business. However, acquisitions present challenges, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition, potential unknown liabilities or penalties associated with acquired businesses. Any inability to integrate operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. For instance, in January 2008, we acquired JNet Holdings Limited, or JNet Holdings, a British Virgin Islands company, and obtained control over Shanghai JNet Telecom Co., Ltd., or Shanghai JNet, an affiliate of JNet Holdings in China through contractual arrangements. However, in 2008 and 2009, we recognized an impairment of goodwill and related acquired intangible assets of approximately RMB75.1 million and RMB6.9 million, respectively, in connection with our acquisition of JNet Holdings and obtaining control over Shanghai JNet. In December 2011, we decided to terminate the contractual arrangements with Shanghai JNet and disposed Shanghai JNet. See “Item 4.—Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure—Termination of Contractual Arrangements with Shanghai JNet.” We may continue to be unsuccessful in identifying and consummating future acquisitions and strategic investments, which could impair our growth potential. In addition, future acquisitions and strategic investments will require the use of our available cash or dilutive issuances of securities. We may also experience significant turnover from the acquired operations or from our current operations as we integrate businesses. Such difficulties in identifying and consummating future acquisitions and strategic investments or any difficulties encountered in integrating current and future acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate in the future. This may result in significant volatility in, and otherwise adversely affect, the market for our ADSs. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. These fluctuations are often not seasonable but could result in significant volatility in, and otherwise adversely affect, the market price of our ordinary shares. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: · our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; · the loss of major customers, or a significant variation in their use of our services; · service outages or security breaches; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and network; · the occurrence of significant events in a particular period that results in an increase in the use of our services, such as a major media event or a customer’s online release of a new or updated video game; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · share-based compensation expenses associated with attracting and retaining key personnel; · limitations of the capacity of our platform and related systems; · the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; · general economic, industry, market and regulatory conditions and those conditions specific to internet usage and online businesses; and · reduced usage of our services by our customers. Our revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. Our technologies and business methods may be subject to third-party claims or rights that limit or prevent their use. Companies, organizations or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. Intellectual property registrations or applications by others relating to the type of services that we provide may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. In addition, due to being a public company, we may face a higher risk of being subject to intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. The global content and application delivery services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement claims may further increase as the number of products, services and competitors in our market increases. Further, continued success in this market may provide an impetus to those who might use intellectual property litigation as a tool against us. 11 Table of Contents It is critical that we use and develop our technology and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including but not limited to patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our customers against infringement claims in certain instances. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have patents, patent applications and software copyright registrations in China relating to the technologies used in our business. However, we have no issued patents in the U.S. Certain U.S.-based companies have been granted patents or have licensed patents in the U.S. relating to the content and application delivery business. In the past, we have conducted substantially all of our business operations in China. We primarily rely upon our local business partners in the U.S. to address our content and application delivery needs in those markets. However, the possibility of intellectual property rights infringement claims against us may still increase as we expand outside China. If we fail to defend ourselves against any intellectual property infringement claim, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, software registration and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of the date of this annual report, we have 26 patents, 34 patent applications and 14 software copyright registrations. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators are required to enter into confidentiality agreements. However, a patent filing may not result in an issued patent and an issued patent may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights and our current patent portfolio may not be broad enough to protect our technologies. In addition, implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If our ability to deliver services and applications in popular proprietary formats is restricted or becomes cost-prohibitive, demand for our services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. Our business partially depends on our ability to deliver internet services and applications in all major formats. If our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver internet services and applications in one or more popular proprietary formats, such as Adobe Flash or Windows Media, is limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content and application delivery total solutions by customers using these formats would decline. Owners of proprietary formats may be able to block, restrict, or impose fees or other costs on, our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of internet services and applications altogether. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenues, results of operations and growth. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that they rely on in implementing our business plan. We do not have “key person” insurance policies covering any of our officers or other key employees, and we therefore have no way of mitigating our financial loss were we to lose their services. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations, delay the development and introduction of our services, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services. There is increasing competition for qualified individuals with the specialized knowledge relevant to providing content and application network services and this competition affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. If we cannot identify and hire additional qualified employees, or if we fail to provide appropriate training, career opportunities or otherwise motivate and retain our quality employees, we may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategies and our business could suffer. We may not be able to recoup our investment in international expansions. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to expand our international network. Such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, including the purchase of additional network equipment and the hiring of local employees, in advance of generating any revenues. As a consequence, we may fail to achieve profitability or recoup our investment in international locations. If we fail to maintain a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may be adversely impacted. Maintaining and enhancing the value of our “ChinaCache” and “Blue I.T.” brands is important to attracting customers. Our success in maintaining brand awareness and recognition in the content and application delivery services market in China will depend on our ability to consistently provide high-quality, value-added services and solutions. As our business grows, we plan to continue to focus our efforts to establish a wider recognition of our “ChinaCache” and “Blue I.T.” brands to attract potential customers, which may require additional marketing resources. We cannot assure you that we will effectively allocate our resources for these activities or succeed in maintaining and broadening our brand recognition and appeal. If we fail to maintain a strong brand identity, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. If we are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We may need to obtain additional funding due to a number of factors beyond our control, including a shortfall in revenues, increased expenses, increased investment in capital equipment or the acquisition of significant businesses or technologies. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, and anticipated cash from operating activities will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. If for unforeseen circumstances we do need to obtain additional funding, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business would be harmed. Even if we are able to find outside funding sources, we may be required to issue securities in a transaction that could be highly dilutive to our investors or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We may also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our ADSs, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to generate or raise capital that is sufficient to fund our operations, we may be required to curtail operations, reduce our capabilities or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or completely. 13 Table of Contents If our preferential tax treatment for ChinaCache Beijing and Beijing Blue I.T. becomes unavailable, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, effective as of January 1, 2008, permits certain “high and new enterprises strongly supported by the state” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property and simultaneously meet a list of other financial or non-financial criteria to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain new qualification criteria. ChinaCache Beijing was subject to a reduced tax rate of 15% from fiscal year 2010 to 2012 due to its having received “high and new technology enterprise” status from the Beijing Science and Technology Commission, Beijing Finance Bureau, Beijing Administration of State Taxation and Beijing Administration of Local Taxation on December 24, 2010. On November 11, 2013, ChinaCache Beijing obtained the certificate of “high and new technology enterprise” jointly issued by the same governmental authorities in Beijing, with which ChinaCache Beijing will be eligible for a reduced income tax rate of 15% for fiscal years 2013, 2014 and 2015. If we fail to maintain the “high and new technology enterprise” status of ChinaCache Beijing, the enterprise income tax rate of ChinaCache Beijing will increase to 25%. Beijing Blue I.T. had previously been entitled to a reduced 15% income tax rate from 2008 through 2010, due to its qualification of the “high and new technology enterprise” status in December 2008. In January 2011, Beijing Blue I.T. lost its status as a result of failing to apply for a timely renewal of such qualification. In 2013, Beijing Blue I.T. was recognized as “high and new technology enterprise” again and is eligible for a preferential tax rate of 15% effective retrospectively from 2012 to 2014 and thereafter for additional three years through an administrative renewal process if it continues to qualify the statutory requirements. Furthermore, in May 2013, Beijing Blue I.T. was recognized as a key software enterprise covered by the national planning layout scheme, or Key Software Enterprise, jointly by the National Development and Reform Commission, MIIT, Ministry of Commerce and State Administration of Taxation, which entitled it to enjoy a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2011 and 2012. Beijing Blue I.T. has applied for “Key Software Enterprise” status for 2013 and 2014 and received official approval as “Key Software Enterprise” in December 2013, and therefore is eligible for a preferential tax rate of 10% for 2013 and 2014. There is no assurance that Beijing Blue I.T. will continue to maintain the “Key Software Enterprise” status. See “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Taxation—PRC.” If our preferential tax treatment of ChinaCache Beijing and Beijing Blue I.T. become unavailable, our income tax expenses would increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Although our management concluded, and our independent registered public accounting firm reported, that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, we cannot assure you that we will maintain effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to conclude and our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to report that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in our future annual report on Form 20-F covering the fiscal year in which this failure occurs. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources as our business and operations further expand or in an effort to remediate any significant control deficiencies that may be identified in the future. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive plans, resulting in increased share based compensation expenses and, therefore, adversely affecting our results of operations. We have adopted a total of four stock incentive plans, in the years 2007, 2008, 2010 and 2011. There were options to purchase 31,555,574 of our ordinary shares in accordance with these plans granted and outstanding as of December 31, 2013. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Compensation—Stock Incentive Plans.” For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we recorded RMB27.0 million, RMB16.1 million and RMB11.9 million (US$2.0 million), respectively, in share-based compensation expenses for employees and non-employees. If we grant more stock options to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share based compensation may adversely affect our results of operations. However, if we do not grant stock options or reduce the number of stock options that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. 14 Table of Contents We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from occurrence of natural catastrophes, acts of terrorism or fires, and we have limited insurance coverage. The occurrence of natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons or any acts of terrorism may result in significant property damages as well as loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. In addition, the provision of our services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, which are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural catastrophes and acts of terrorism. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of typhoons or earthquakes. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for every conceivable possibility. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our services, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our systems are unreliable. The insurance industry in China is not fully developed. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. While business disruption insurance may be available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption and the difficulties and costs associated with acquiring such insurance render it commercially impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. On May 12, 2008 and April 20, 2013, severe earthquakes hit parts of Sichuan province in southeastern China. On April 14, 2010, a severe earthquake hit part of Qinghai province in western China. Theses earthquakes resulted in significant casualties and property damage. While we did not suffer any loss or experience any significant increase in cost resulting from these earthquakes, if a similar disaster were to occur in the future affecting Beijing or another city where we have major operations in China, our operations could be materially and adversely affected due to loss of personnel and damages to property. In addition, a similar disaster affecting a larger, more developed area could also cause an increase in our costs resulting from the efforts to resurvey the affected area. In April 2009, a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1, commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In early June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak to be a pandemic, while noting that most of the illnesses were of moderate severity. The PRC Ministry of Health has reported several hundred deaths caused by influenza A (H1N1). In March 2013, a new virus subtype H7N9, commonly known as “bird flu” or “avian flu,” was discovered in eastern China and has already sickened and killed some people. It is unclear how this virus will spread, which makes it difficult to predict its potential impact. Any outbreak of avian flu, SARS, influenza A (H1N1), H7N9, or their variations, or other adverse public health epidemic in China may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. These occurrences could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our customers’ offices to provide on-site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to China’s anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in penalties, which could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and anyone acting on their behalf from offering or making improper payments or providing benefits to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, along with various other anti-corruption laws, including China’s anti-corruption laws. Our policies prohibit any such conduct and require that we, our employees and intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. There is, however, no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. We operate in the content and application delivery services industry in China and generally purchase bandwidth from state or government-owned telecommunications carriers and provide a portfolio of services and solutions to government agencies. This puts us in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations. If we are found to be not in compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws governing the conduct of business with government entities or officials, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities, including Chinese authorities, could adversely impact our reputation, cause us to lose customer sales and access to end-user access networks, and lead to other adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the telecommunications business, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC government regulates telecommunications-related businesses through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership of PRC companies that engage in telecommunications-related business. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any PRC company engaging in value-added telecommunications business. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and regulations, and our wholly-owned PRC subsidiaries, ChinaCache Beijing and Xin Run, are foreign-invested enterprises. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our content and application delivery total solution business in China through a set of contractual arrangements with each of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian and their respective shareholders. These contractual arrangements provide us with effective control over Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Variable Interest Entities.” The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, issued a circular in July 2006 requiring a foreign investor to set up a foreign-invested enterprise and obtain a value-added telecommunications business operating license, or VAT license, in order to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Pursuant to this circular, a domestic VAT license holder is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local VAT license holder or its shareholder. The circular further requires each VAT license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretations from the regulator, it is unclear what impact this circular will have on us or other similarly situated companies. In the opinion of Han Kun Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, (i) the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiary, our PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their branches and subsidiaries comply with all existing PRC laws and regulations; (ii) each of the contracts under the contractual arrangements among us, our PRC subsidiary, PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders governed by PRC law are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (iii) the business operations of our PRC subsidiary, our PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their branches and subsidiaries are in all material respects in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations and the terms of their licenses and permits. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, and the above circular. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities that regulate providers of content and application delivery services and other participants in the telecommunications industry, in particular, the MIIT, will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. 16 Table of Contents The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If our corporate and contractual structure is deemed by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities to be illegal, either in whole or in part, we may have to modify such structure to comply with regulatory requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we can achieve this without material disruption to our business. Further, if our corporate and contractual structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking our business and operating licenses; · levying fines on us; · confiscating any of our income that they deem to be obtained through illegal operations; · shutting down a portion or all of our networks and servers; · discontinuing or restricting our operations in China; · imposing conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply; · requiring us to restructure our corporate and contractual structure; · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from a public offering to finance our PRC consolidated variable interest entities’ business and operations; and · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ChinaCache Beijing’s contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian may result in adverse tax consequences to us. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that ChinaCache Beijing’s contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian were not made on an arm’s length basis and adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by (i) increasing the respective tax liabilities of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian without reducing ChinaCache Beijing’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian for underpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of ChinaCache Beijing, Beijing Blue I.T. or Beijing Jingtian to obtain or maintain preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. Due to our corporate structure and ChinaCache Beijing’s contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian, effective in September 2012, we are subject to a 6% value-added tax, or VAT, on revenues derived from ChinaCache Beijing and Beijing Jingtian and certain type of revenues from Beijing Blue I.T. 17 Table of Contents We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian and their respective shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian, and their respective shareholders, to operate our business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Variable Interest Entities.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our consolidated variable interest entities. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our consolidated variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce such arrangements in reliance on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system and we may incur substantial costs and expend significant resources in pursuing such enforcement actions. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our consolidated variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit legal protections available to you and us.” The shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian, are also the founders, directors, executive officers, employees or shareholders of our company. Conflicts of interests between their roles may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause our consolidated variable interest entities to breach the existing contractual arrangements. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on these individuals to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of our two consolidated variable interest entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Our ability to enforce the share pledge agreements between us and the shareholders of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Pursuant to the share pledge agreements which our wholly owned subsidiary ChinaCache Beijing has entered into with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian and their respective shareholders, the shareholders of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian have agreed to pledge their respective equity interests in Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian to ChinaCache Beijing to secure Beijing Blue I.T.’s and Beijing Jingtian’s performance of their obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. The share pledges of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian under these share pledge agreements have been registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC. In addition, when registering the pledges over the equity interests under the share pledge agreements with the local branch of SAIC, the amount of secured liabilities as stated on the application forms was RMB10 million for both Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian, corresponding to the pledged equity interests. The share pledge agreements with the shareholders of Beijing Blue I.T. provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute continuing security for any and all of the payment obligations under all of the principal service agreements. The share pledge agreements with the shareholders of Beijing Jingtian provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute continuing security for any and all of payment obligations, including payment of consulting and service fees, under the business cooperation agreement. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that RMB10 million represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the share pledge agreements and are in excess of RMB10 million could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes secondary priority comparing with other creditors with secured debts. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business may be adversely affected by government policies and regulations in China. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce conducted over the internet are becoming more prevalent in China, and may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing internet-related services such as us and many of our customers. Increased regulation could negatively affect our business directly, as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws and regulations prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local internet service provider to block any internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to comply with the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the dissemination of online information. Our business may be adversely affected if any of our customers’ websites are restricted, blocked or closed or if we face liability for content distributed over our network. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. In April 2007, the General Administration of Press and Publication of China and several other governmental authorities issued a circular requiring the implementation of an “anti-fatigue system” and a real-name registration system by all PRC online game operators in an effort to curb addictive game play behaviors of minors under the age of eighteen. In addition, it is also possible that the PRC government authorities may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction or otherwise. The implementation of these regulations may discourage or otherwise prevent or restrict minors from playing online games, which could limit the growth of online game operators, one of our key customer groups, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television and the MIIT issued the Administrative Measures Regarding internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that only entities wholly owned or controlled by state-owned enterprises may apply for “the internet Audio-Video Program Operating License” to engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transfer to the public through the internet, of audio-video programs, and the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. In addition, the internet Audio-Video Program Measures require that, when providing signal transmission for internet Audio-Video programs, network operators are obligated to examine the licenses or permits of the internet Audio-Video Programs service providers and must provide internet access services within the scope of such licenses or registration documents. The internet Audio-Video Program Measures further provide that no entity may provide signal transmission, internet data center services, fee collection or other financial or technical services to internet Audio-Video Programs service providers that do not have applicable licenses or permits. Although we do not provide audio-video programs on our own, our content and application delivery total solutions include provision of technical assistance to customers, social networking operators in particular, in the uploading and transmission of user-generated content, including audio-video programs. There are significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the internet Audio-Video Program Measures. Accordingly, if we are required to verify our customers’ internet Audio-Video Program Operating Licenses, such requirements may impose additional obligations on us, which may increase our expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any of these factors could cause significant disruption to our operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to acquire, obtain or maintain applicable telecommunications licenses, or are deemed by relevant governmental authorities to be operating outside the terms of our existing license, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the PRC State Council in September 2000, telecommunications businesses are divided into two categories, namely, (i) “basic telecommunications business,” which refers to a business that provides public network infrastructure, public data transmission and basic voice communications services, and (ii) “value-added telecommunications business,” which refers to a business that provides telecommunications and information services through the public network infrastructure. Pursuant to the VAT license issued to Beijing Blue I.T. by the MIIT in November 2007 and renewed in December 2012, Beijing Blue I.T. is permitted to carry out its content and application delivery business and its internet data center business under the first category of “value-added telecommunications business.” Based on this VAT license and our consultation with certain officials of the MIIT, we believe that, in practice, our content and application delivery business falls under the category of “value-added telecommunications business,” and we are permitted to operate our content and application delivery services under Beijing Blue I.T.’s VAT license. However, since China’s content and application delivery services market is at an early stage of development, the scope of content and application delivery businesses has been expanding constantly and the concept of content and application delivery services is evolving. We have been continuously developing our content and application delivery business to better serve our customers, and as a result, we introduce new technologies and services from time to time to support and improve our current business. As of the date of this annual report, there is no legal definition as to what constitutes a “content and application delivery business,” nor are there laws or regulations in China specifically governing the content and application delivery business. We cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will continue to deem our content and application delivery business and any of our newly developed technologies, network and services used in our business as a type of value-added telecommunications business covered under the VAT license of Beijing Blue I.T. As we expand our networks across China, it is also possible that the MIIT, in the future, may deem our operations to have exceeded the terms of our existing license. Further, we cannot assure you that Beijing Blue I.T. will be able to successfully renew its VAT license upon its expiration, or that its VAT license will continue to cover all aspects of our content and application delivery business and operations upon its renewal. In addition, new laws, regulations or government interpretations may also be promulgated from time to time to regulate the content and application delivery business or any of our related technology or services, which may require us to obtain additional, or expand existing, operating licenses or permits. Any of these factors could result in Beijing Blue I.T. being disqualified from carrying out its current business, causing significant disruption to our business operations which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past several decades, the growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such a slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. 20 Table of Contents The PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. From late 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines that had the effect of slowing the growth of credit, which in turn may have slowed the growth of the Chinese economy. In response to the global and Chinese economic downturn in 2008, the PRC government promulgated several measures aimed at expanding credit and stimulating economic growth including decreasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and lowering benchmark interest rates several times. From January 2010 to the second half of 2011, however, the People’s Bank of China increased the statutory deposit reserve ratio in response to rapid growth of credit in 2009. Since December 2011, the People’s Bank of China has again lowered the statutory deposit reserve ratio several times to help stimulate economic growth. It is unclear whether PRC economic policies will be effective in maintaining stable economic growth in the future. Any slowdown in the economic growth of China could lead to reduced demand for our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit legal protections available to you and us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. ChinaCache Beijing is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past several decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities, which are limited liability companies established in China. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses, if any. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to certain limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries, ChinaCache Beijing and Xin Run, are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, it is required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 21 Table of Contents Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC resident shareholders. Pursuant to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The term “de facto management body” is defined as the management body that exercises full and substantial control and overall management over the business, productions, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation issued SAT Circular 82 in April 2009, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled overseas-incorporated enterprise is located in China. In July 2011, the State Administration of Taxation issued additional rules to provide more guidance on the implementation of SAT Circular 82. Although SAT Circular 82 and the additional guidance apply only to overseas registered enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not to those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the criteria set forth in SAT Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow: (i) we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations, and (ii) a 10% withholding tax may be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC resident shareholders and a 10% PRC tax may apply to gains derived by our non-PRC resident shareholders from transferring our shares or ADSs, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income. Similarly, such unfavorable tax consequences could apply to ChinaCache North America Inc. and ChinaCache Network (Hong Kong) Limited if they are deemed to be “resident enterprises” by the PRC tax authorities. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Enterprise Income Tax Law also provides that the dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. If our Cayman Islands holding company is deemed a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, the dividends it receives from its PRC subsidiaries, ChinaCache Beijing and Xin Run, may constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and therefore qualify for tax exemption. However, the definition of qualified resident enterprises is unclear and the relevant PRC government authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Even if such dividends qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to any withholding tax. The M&A Rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rules include provisions that purport to require approval of the Ministry of Commerce for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons, and prohibit offshore entities from using their foreign-invested subsidiaries in China, or through “other means,” to circumvent such requirement. As part of our growth strategy, we obtained control over Beijing Jingtian in July 2008 by entering into contractual arrangements with Beijing Jingtian and its shareholders. We did not seek the approval of the Ministry of Commerce for this transaction based on the legal advice we obtained from our PRC legal counsel in those transactions that such approval was unnecessary. However, the M&A Rules also prohibit companies from using any “other means” to circumvent the approval requirement set forth therein and there is no clear interpretation as to what constitutes “other means” of circumvention of the requirement under the M&A Rules. The Ministry of Commerce and other applicable government authorities would therefore have broad discretion in determining whether an acquisition is in violation of the M&A Rules. If PRC regulatory authorities take a view that is contrary to ours, we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, we may in the future grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses in China. If we are required to obtain the approval from the Ministry of Commerce, completion of such transaction may be delayed or even inhibited. Our ability to expand our business or maintain or expand our market share through future acquisitions would as such be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents In addition, in August 2011 the Ministry of Commerce issued the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective from September 1, 2011, require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to merger control review or security review. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further provide that, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a PRC enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review by the Ministry of Commerce, the principle of substance over form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision in the MOFCOM Security Review Rules stating that our content and application delivery business fall into the scope subject to the security review. However, as these rules are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation on the implementation of these new rules, there can be no assurance that the Ministry of Commerce will not apply these rules to our contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian. If we are found to be in violation of the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, or fail to obtain any required approvals, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating income, revoking our PRC affiliates’ business or operating licenses or requiring us to restructure or unwind the relevant ownership structure or operations. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if the business of any target company that we would like to acquire in the future falls into the ambit of security review, complying with the requirements of the relevant rules could be prohibitively time consuming or we may be legally prohibited from acquiring such company either by equity or asset acquisition, capital contribution or through any contractual arrangement, which could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from a public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary or consolidated variable interest entities, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, ChinaCache Beijing and Xin Run, or consolidated variable interest entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run. Any loans to ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run or consolidated variable interest entities are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may also decide to finance our operations in China by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiary. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds from a public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues. Substantially all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC laws, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans, without the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries, ChinaCache Beijing and Xin Run, may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. However, foreign exchange transactions by ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. In particular, if ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must first be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. If ChinaCache Beijing or Xin Run, as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, borrows foreign currency, the accumulative amount of its foreign currency loans shall not exceed the difference between the total investment and the registered capital of ChinaCache Beijing. If we finance ChinaCache Beijing by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated variable interest entities to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to meet our foreign currency obligations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. 23 Table of Contents In August 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular No. 142, which regulates the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular No. 142 provides that the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign invested enterprise. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE’s approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular No. 59 in November 2010, which requires that the government authorities closely examine the authenticity of the settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings and the net proceeds be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. SAFE also promulgated SAFE Circular No. 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. Violations of these circulars could result in substantial monetary or other penalties. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures, and to the extent that such inspections might have facilitated improvements in our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures, investors may be deprived of such benefits. 24 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The sanction will not take effect until there is an order of effectiveness issued by the SEC. The accounting firms involved have appealed in February 2014. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six-month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the Ministry of Finance which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how these recent developments could affect the SEC’s final decision in the case against the accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. If our independent registered public accounting firm were ultimately temporarily denied the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ADSs from the NASDAQ or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. 25 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange issued Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the relevant local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interest in, PRC companies. In addition, any PRC resident that is the beneficial owner of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her registration with the local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any of its increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. Any failure to comply with the required registration requirements could result in PRC subsidiaries being prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company, the offshore parent company being restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries, and other liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Prior to our initial public offering in October 2010, our current PRC resident beneficial owners had made the necessary registrations as required under Circular 75. Following our initial public offering, our founders, Song Wang and Jean Xiaohong Kou, established a trust to hold their shares in their personal offshore holding companies, which own our ordinary shares. Our founders and PRC resident beneficial owners have also amended their registrations under Circular 75 in connection with our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that our current and future beneficial owners who are PRC residents will continue to comply with Circular 75; nor can we ensure you that there will not be further filing or registration requirements imposed by the PRC government concerning ownership in foreign companies of PRC residents. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with these requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to ChinaCache Beijing, and consolidated variable interest entities, limit ChinaCache Beijing’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for stock incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branch and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of these participants. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise or sale of stock options. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. We and our PRC resident employees who participate in our stock incentive plan are subject to these regulations. We have registered our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and 2011 Stock Incentive Plan with Beijing branch of SAFE. If we or our PRC resident option grantees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC resident option grantees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Stock Options Granted by Listed Companies.” 26 Table of Contents Our ability to transfer ownership of the buildings of our cloud infrastructure may be restricted if we fail to obtain requisite governmental approvals. In March 2013, we acquired land use right in Tianzhu Comprehensive Bonded Zone in Beijing, upon which we plan to partner with our clients to construct cloud infrastructure. We have entered into memorandums of understanding with two clients, pursuant to which they will purchase part of the cloud infrastructure from us. The final sales agreement will be entered into, pending certain governmental approval. The land we acquired for the development of our cloud infrastructure is catagorized as land for industrial use and hence the transfer of ownership of the buildings constructed on such land, along with relevant land use rights, is subject to the prior approval by multiple administrative authorities. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to transfer ownership of the buildings in our cloud infrastructure to potential investors or clients will be restricted and our financial condition may thereby be adversely affected. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Transfer of Real Estate Properties”. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NASDAQ Global Market on October 1, 2010, the market prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$3.50 to US$35.00 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 4, 2014 was US$20.74 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the operating performance or market valuations of other internet content and application delivery service businesses or other internet-related businesses. · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar; · intellectual property litigation; · general economic or political conditions in China and the U.S.; and · detrimental negative publicity about us, our products and services, our financial results or our compliance with applicable law. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies and companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Further, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our ADS price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, most of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. 27 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All of our shares are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ADSs, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different from those of U.S. domestic reporting companies; as a result, you should not expect to receive the same information about us at the same time when a U.S. domestic reporting company provides the information required to be disclosed. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to the same requirements that are imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, we are subject to reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We must file our annual report within four months after the end of our fiscal year, which is December 31 of each year. We are not required to disclose detailed individual executive compensation information that is required to be disclosed by U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act and are not subject to the insider short-swing profit disclosure and recovery regime. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act. Since many of the disclosure obligations imposed on us as a foreign private issuer are different than those imposed on U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive the same information about us and at the same time as the information received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our assets, the market value of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on our income and assets and the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013 and we do not expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. However, we can give no assurances in this regard as the PFIC determination is inherently factual and the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several aspects. Under U.S. federal tax law, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate these entities’ results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of Beijing Blue I.T. and Beijing Jingtian for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and any subsequent taxable year. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current year or any subsequent taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets and the cash raised in any offering. Under circumstances where revenues from activities that produce passive royalty income significantly increase relative to our revenues from activities that produce non-passive income or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for working capital or other active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. 28 Table of Contents If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings and may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to the holders of ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. The holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and the holders of our ADSs will not receive such distribution. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. The ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and a majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiary in China. The majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for the holders of our ADSs to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that they believe that their rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if the holders of our ADSs are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render the holders of our ADSs unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 29 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (as amended) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a public company of the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ have detailed requirements concerning corporate governance practices of public companies including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal controls over financial reporting. These rules and regulations have increased our director and officer liability insurance, accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and have made certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If securities or industry analysts do not actively follow our business or if they publish unfavorable research about our business, our ADS price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our ADSs or publishes unfavorable research about our business, our ADS price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our ADSs could decrease, which could cause our ADS price and trading volume to decline. 30 Table of Contents 