Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including without limitation those described below, that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, performance and the trading price of our common stock. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information included in this Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We have a limited history and may not be able to achieve financial or operational success. We are a relatively new company with an approximate four year history. Our operations are subject to all risks inherent in the establishment of a recently formed business. Our success may be limited by problems, fluctuations in expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered with new businesses as well as competition in the IME industry. While we have been able to generate revenues, we may not be able to increase the amount of revenues we generate, and we will likely continue to incur net losses for some time as we continue to grow. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in our state of development. Further, we may not be able to successfully implement any of our plans in a timely or effective manner which wou ld negatively impact our ability to generate or increase revenues as well as our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in implementing our growth strategy and acquiring companies that complement our business, which would adversely impact our growth and profitability. Our growth strategy is primarily dependent on acquiring and integrating the operations of companies in the IME industry. Since our inception, we have acquired 30 IME businesses, including a provider of software solutions to the IME industry. To continue this strategic growth, we will need to continue to identify appropriate businesses to acquire and successfully undertake the acquisition of these businesses on reasonable terms. Although we expect to continue to evaluate such strategic acquisitions, we may not be successful in pursuing acquisition opportunities and implementing our growth strategy if, without limitation: ● suitable acquisition candidates are not available; ● acquisitions cannot be completed on reasonable terms; 17 ● we inherit or assume significant liabilities relating to acquired entities or businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws; or ● we are unable to raise the funds necessary to make acquisitions. In addition, we may compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates that we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete those acquisitions that we identify, we will not be able to realize the benefit of this part of our growth strategy which could harm our future profitability. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it will result in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may increase our acquisition costs. The terms of certain of our acquisitions have included, and may in the future include, earnout provisions or the issuance of indebtedness of the seller. Such earnout provisions may require us to make additional payments in cash which would reduce the amount of cash available to us or could cause us to incur additional indebtedness or cause us to issue additional shares resulting in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares. In addition, these arrangements may make it more difficult to consummate such acquisitions and can sometimes complicate integration efforts. We may be unable to successfully integrate completed acquisitions and such acquisitions may fail to achieve the financial results we expected. Since July 2008, we have acquired 30 IME businesses. These acquisitions have involved, and could continue to involve, the integration of a separate company that previously operated independently and had different systems, processes and cultures, into our existing operations. While we expect to continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions that might augment our existing services, we may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, including our recently completed acquisitions, and such acquisitions may fail to achieve the financial results we expected. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations, particularly larger acquisitions, involves numerous risks, including loss of clients, diversion of our management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, and failure of the acquired busine ss to be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws. We may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Also, depending on the location of the acquired business, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations that may differ from those of the jurisdictions in which our operations are currently conducted. Our inability to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, or if such businesses do not achieve the financial results we expect, may increase our costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our international expansion and operations in foreign markets expose us to risks associated with international sales and operations. On June 30, 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets of SOMA Medical Assessments Inc. and Direct IME, which provide IME and certain medical review services in Canada. On September 7, 2010, we acquired the entire issued capital of UK Independent Medical Services Limited, which provides IME services in the United Kingdom. We intend to continue to expand internationally and operate in select foreign markets. Managing a global organization is difficult, time consuming, and expensive. Our inexperience in operating our business globally increases the risk that any future international expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced. These risks include: lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potentially adverse tax consequences, including foreign value added tax systems, and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and political, social, and economic instability abroad. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 18 We are sensitive to regional weather conditions that may adversely affect our operations. Our operations are directly affected in the short-term by the weather conditions in certain of our regions of operation. Therefore our business is sensitive to the weather conditions of these regions. Unusually inclement weather, including significant rain, snow, sleet, freezing rain or ice can temporarily affect our operations if clients are forced to close operational centers, and physicians and claimants are unable to travel to their appointments. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, depending on the impact of these weather conditions. We may need additional capital to fund our operations and finance our growth, and we may not be able to secure such capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In order for us to grow and successfully execute our business plan, we may require additional financing which may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. If such financing is available, it may dilute the existing stockholders’ ownership interests in the Company. Failure to obtain financing may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and may cause you to lose your entire investment in the Company. In addition, if we are unable to secure additional financing on acceptable terms or at all, it will impact our ability to consumate acquisitions. Our industry may be regulated at the federal, state and local levels and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. As a company involved in the provision of IME, peer review, bill review and related services, we are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations. There are significant costs involved in complying with these laws and regulations. Moreover, if we are found to have violated any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal damages, fines, sanctions, or penalties and have our licenses revoked. If our arrangements or business practices become subject to government scrutiny or are found to violate laws or regulations, we could incur significant costs and may be required to modify certain aspects of our operations. Government audits, investigations and prosecutions, even if we ultimately are found to be without fault, can be costly and disruptive to our business and could result in the los s of clients. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unintended consequences of recently adopted health reform legislation in the U.S. may adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the U.S., comprehensive programs are under consideration that seek to, among other things, increase access to healthcare for the uninsured and control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy. On March 23, 2010, health reform legislation was approved by Congress and has been signed into law. While we do not believe this legislation will have a direct impact on our business, the legislation has only recently been enacted and requires the adoption of implementing regulations, which may have unintended consequences or indirectly impact our business. For instance, the scope and implications of the recent amendments pursuant to the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (“FERA”), hav e yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may impact our business. Also, in some instances our clients are health insurers that will be subject to limitations on their administrative expenses and new federal review of “unreasonable” rate increases which could impact the prices they are willing to pay for our services. If the legislation causes such unintended consequences or indirect impact, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Changes in government regulations could increase our costs of operations and/or reduce the demand for our services, which would negatively impact our growth and profitability. Federal and state legislatures may review and consider legislation that may impact our business and our industry. If new laws or regulations are implemented or changes are made to existing laws or regulations impacting the IME industry, we may be required to incur additional costs or make changes to our services which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The Province of Ontario has recently enacted amendments to the Statutory Accident Benefits Schedule, which governs motor vehicle accident claims in Ontario, Canada. Recent amendments that took effect on September 1, 2010 no longer require insurance companies to first obtain medical assessments before denying claims, but clarify that denials must state a medical or other reason, require that all fees and expenses for conducting medical assessments, other than those requested by insurance companies, be paid out of a claimant’s medical and rehabilitation benefits and cap at C$2,000 the fees that may be charged for all medical assessments. Since the amendments have only recently become effective, we cannot at this time predict the effects and implications of these amendments on the financial condition and results of operations of ou r Canadian business. In addition, the confidentiality and security of patient records and the circumstances under which such information may be used or released are subject to substantial regulation by state and federal laws and regulations. The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as amended (“HIPAA”) and other regulations governing privacy, security, and electronic health data transmissions, including under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), are evolving rapidly through regulation and are often unclear and difficult to apply. If we violate HIPAA, ARRA or other state or federal laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines and penalties. Further, final or new regulations may require costly system purchases or additional modificatio ns to our policies and procedures, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws, at either the national or state level, making it more difficult to bring certain kinds of cases or that limit jury awards, commonly referred to as tort reform, could decrease the demand for our services. Changes in laws, at either the national or state level, making it more difficult to bring certain kinds of cases or that limit jury awards, commonly referred to as tort reform, could lead to a smaller number of insurance or other claims, which in term could result in a decrease in demand for IMEs and other services we provide. Such a decrease in demand for our services could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or expand our accreditation, which may adversely affect our ability to market our services. Certain of our subsidiaries and/or divisions are accredited by third-party accreditation bodies. We intend to further expand our accreditation in the U.S. However, we may not be able to maintain or expand our accreditation which may adversely impact our ability to competitively market our services. The costs of initial accreditation and maintenance of accreditation may exceed our expectations, and the benefits of accreditation may be outweighed by the related costs. 20 If we cannot update and maintain our information technology platform so that we can meet critical client requirements, the competitiveness of our business will suffer. Our information technology platform is critical to our competitive position and success. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new software solutions or enhance our existing ones in a cost-effective and timely manner and to respond to changing market conditions or client requirements, our business, results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of internal development and strategic relationships to develop our infrastructure platform and software solutions. Through our acquisition of IME Software Solutions in July 2009, we acquired a platform software solution for the IME industry and are in the process of deploying this technology throughout our entire organization. Our information technology platform is built in a Private Virtual Cloud Computing Network (“PVCCN”). Our development and implementation of new generation software solutions and an information technology infrastructure may take longer than originally expected and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, any inability to deploy our technology platform throug h our entire organization could cause us to operate different platforms, slow integration efforts and increase costs. Failures of interruptions of, or a breach in security relating to, our information systems could adversely affect us. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our information technology infrastructure could adversely affect our operations. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. In addition, certain of our services are based upon the collection, distribution and protection of sensitive private data. Unauthorized users might access that data, and human error or technological failures might cause the wrongful dissemination of that data. The occurrence of any of the events described above could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and if we are unable to protect them or are subject to intellectual property rights claims, our business may be harmed. Our intellectual property rights include certain trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, which are important assets for our business. Although we take precautions to protect our intellectual property rights, these efforts may not be sufficient or effective. In addition, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our business. For example, we may be subject to third-party intellectual property rights claims. Regardless of the merits of the claims, any intellectual property claims could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, if any claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue any of our practices that are found to be in violation of another party’s rights. We may also have to seek a license to continue such practices, which may significantly increase our operating expenses or may not be available to us at all. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. 21 Our operations and reputation may be harmed if we do not adequately secure information. Federal and state laws regulate the disclosure of certain medical test results and other nonpublic medical-related personal information. If we do not adequately safeguard such information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. In addition, any incidents with respect to the handling of such information could involve us in litigation or indemnification claims with members of our medical panel, our clients or other parties. Although we have implemented security measures to protect confidential information, our infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by our clients or others, which could potentially jeopardize th e security of confidential information stored physically at our locations or electronically in our computer systems. Such an event could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients and deter potential clients, as well as expose us to liability to parties whose security or privacy has been infringed. Moreover, if we do not protect the confidentiality of private information in accordance with applicable laws, we could face significant civil or criminal sanctions. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely impact our business. Competition in the IME industry could result in a reduction in our revenues and earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. The IME industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our primary competitors in the IME industry include companies and individual physicians that specialize in one or more services similar to those offered by us on a local or regional basis as well as insurance companies and other organizations which have established an in-house capability of performing such services. It is also possible that our clients may establish the in-house capability of performing certain services offered by us or decide to continue to use any of our numerous small local or regional competitors to service their needs. We also compete with national, regional and local firms specializing in case management, medical records reviews and other services we provide. It is possible that now or in the future some of our competitors could have greater financial and ma rket resources than us. Increased competition or new entrants to our key markets could prevent price increases for our services or could require price reductions for our services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified physicians and other medical providers as independent contractors to perform IME services on our behalf, our financial condition may suffer. Our performance and future success depends on the talents and efforts of the physicians and other medical providers on our medical panel who perform the IME services on our behalf on an independent contractor basis and on our ability to maintain good relations with those physicians and other medical providers. If we do not succeed in attracting qualified physicians and other medical providers, or retaining or motivating physicians or other medical providers, our performance may suffer and we may be unable to grow our business effectively. Further, we may be required to enhance compensation in order to recruit and retain physicians and other medical providers on an independent contractor basis. As a result, our medical panel costs could increase and we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs, which could have a m aterial adverse effect on our results of operations. Our clients may terminate their relationships with us or reduce the fees they pay us, which may have a negative impact on our business. Our operations depend upon our relationships with our clients. Our clients are primarily insurance companies, law firms, TPAs, government agencies and state funds. We do not have formal written agreements with most of our clients and to the extent we do, such agreements do not generally restrict our clients from terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts. If clients attempt to introduce unfavorable terms or limit the services and products we provide them, our revenues could be negatively impacted. In addition, the termination of business by any of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our operations. There is no guarantee that we will be able to grow or retain our existing clients, particularly after acquisitions, or develop relationships with new clients. 22 We may be subject to possible litigation and legal liability, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Through the medical certifications of our independent contractor medical panel, we make recommendations concerning the appropriateness of providers’ medical treatment plans of patients throughout the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom, and could share in potential liabilities for adverse medical consequences if the independent contractor negligently provides its services or we and/or the independent contractor are alleged to have inappropriately failed to certify a condition requiring care or treatment plans. We do not grant or deny claims for payment of benefits and we do not believe that we engage in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services. However, we may become subject to claims or litigation related to the grant or denial of claims for payment of benefits or allegations that we engage in the practice o f medicine or the delivery of medical services. We credential our medical panel in a variety of ways, including utilizing a reputable contractor in many cases. If such credentialing is not carried out appropriately or if we do not re-credential at appropriate intervals to identify changes in licensure or other status, we may become subject to claims or litigation. Our clients might also allege that we negligently failed to detect provider fraud. Further, in performing our services, we or our independent contractors may provide services that rely on the interpretation of reports or data prepared or gathered by third parties. If such information is not properly prepared or gathered, or is not accurate or complete, we may become subject to claims or litigation. In addition, we may become subject to other litigation that may adversely affect our business or results of operations. We maintain professional liability and other insurance as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience t o date. However, such insurance may not be sufficient or available in the future at a reasonable cost to protect us from liability, which might adversely affect our business or results of operations. If we lose our key management personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel and other necessary employees, our business would be harmed. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel and those of the acquired companies, the loss of one or more of whom could materially and adversely affect us. Some of these personnel are new to the industry and some have been part of target companies for many years but may not have experience managing a larger company and integrating the separate operations of newly acquired entities. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain talented and qualified employees as well as our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other qualified personnel in the future. The terms of our existing credit facility and future indebtedness could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. Our existing credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. The credit facility includes covenants, including requirements that: ● restrict our ability to pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; ● limit our ability to make certain investments or sell or transfer assets; ● require us to obtain consent from our lenders with respect to acquisitions; ● we grant security interests in newly-acquired companies; ● restrict our ability to consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of our properties or assets; and ● we do not impair our lenders’ security interests in our assets. As discussed above, our credit facility requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged all of our assets and personal property as collateral under the credit facility. If any of the lenders accelera te the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient funds to repay our existing debt. 23 We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks we face. We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our credit facility. If we amend the credit facility to increase the level of our indebtedness or if we enter into new facilities to incur more debt, we may be faced with additional risks and restrictions on our operations, including the following: ● an increase in our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; ● a requirement to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; ● a limit on our ability to make strategic acquisitions; ● a limit on our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and general corporate or other purposes; and ● a limit on our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to a number of factors including, without limitation, those listed in “Risk Factors” and the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● quarterly variations in our results of operations; ● results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; ● the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us or to make changes in their financial estimates; ● results of operations that vary from those of our competitors; ● changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● announcements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● announcements by third parties or governmental entities of significant claims or proceedings against us; ● new laws and governmental regulations applicable to the IME industry; ● a default under agreements covering our existing or future indebtedness; ● future sales of our common stock by us, directors, executives and significant stockholders; and ● changes in economic and political conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that has particularly affected the market price of the stock of many early-stage companies and that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Further, securities class action suits have been filed against companies following periods of market volatility in the price of their securities. If such an action is instituted against us, we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. div> 24 The requirements of being a public reporting company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and adoption of corporate governance practices that are customary for public companies, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management; and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. We have recently become a public company. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including corporate governance requirements. The cost of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other informati on with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders cause our expenses to be higher than they would be if we had remained a privately-held company. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these rules and regulations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight are required. We are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. We have and continue to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these activities and, among other things, additional directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new SEC regulations, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and New York Stock Exchange rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. 25 Failure to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we have significant requirements for financial reporting and internal controls. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and harm our operating results. In addition, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each fiscal year beginning with 2011. Each assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on effectiveness of our internal controls. Testing and maintaining internal controls may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not issue an unqualified report. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report, investors could l ose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders or the possibility or perception of such future sales could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the contractual lock-up agreements described below expire and other restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale in the public market, except that approximately 21.6 million shares are subject to a 180-day contractual lock-up following October 27, 2010, the date of our initial public offering. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, acting as representatives of the u nderwriters to our initial public offering, may permit our executive officers, directors, employees and current stockholders who are subject to the contractual lock-up to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. The exercise of options or other equity awards or the issuance and/or payout of additional equity will result in dilution to our stockholders. Under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, the Company granted, and in the future intends to grant, awards of stock options to purchase common stock and other awards to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. As of December 31, 2010, 5,058,525 shares of our common stock were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options and 24,934 shares were subject to vesting and payout under outstanding restricted stock units. Also, as of December 31, 2010, 443,375 shares of our common stock were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted by the exercise of any of these outstanding stock options or warrants. We will in the future grant stock options and other awards to certain current or future officers, directors, employees and consultants of the Company under additional plans or individual agreements. The grant and exercise of these awards, as applicable, will have the effect of diluting our stockholders’ ownership interests in the Company. 26 Further, we may need to raise additional funds in the future to finance our operations and/or acquire complementary businesses. If we obtain capital in future offerings, the value of the price per share of our stockholders’ common could be reduced. In addition, if we issue additional equity securities in a future offering and certain stockholders do not participate in such offering, there will effectively be dilution in their percentage ownership interest in the Company. We may also issue additional equity securities in connection with other types of transactions, including shares issued as part of the purchase price for acquisitions of assets or other companies from time to time, in connection with strategic partnerships or joint ventures, or as incentives to management or other providers of resources to the Company. Such additional issuances are likely to have the same dilutive effect. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and our credit facility prohibits us from paying such cash dividends. To date, the Company has not paid any dividends on its capital stock. The Company does not anticipate making any cash dividends or other distributions to the stockholders in the immediate or foreseeable future, and any future decision to make such distributions will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company, referred to herein as the “Board of Directors” or the “Board” and, in any event, will be dependent upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. Further, our existing credit facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends, and any future financing agreements may prohibit us from paying any type of dividends. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in your shares of common stock unless you sell such shares for a price greater than that which you paid. In addition, to the extent we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if and to the extent our stock price appreciates. Your ability to influence corporate matters may be limited because a small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock and have substantial control over us. As of March 4, 2011 our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) collectively beneficially own approximately 33.6% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets, and may have interests that are different from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing, discouraging or deferring a change of control, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Transactions engaged in by our principal stockholders, our officers or directors involving our common stock may have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. As described above, as of March 4, 2011 our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) collectively control approximately 33.6% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Subsequent sales of our shares by these stockholders could have the effect of lowering our stock price. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares by these stockholders, or the adoption of significant short positions by hedge funds or other significant investors, could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock by our directors or officers could cause other institu tions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may further cause the price of our stock to decline. From time to time our directors and executive officers may sell shares of our common stock on the open market. These sales will be publicly disclosed in filings made with the SEC. In the future, our directors and executive officers may sell a significant number of shares for a variety of reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. Our stockholders may perceive these sales as a reflection on management’s view of the business and result in some stockholders selling their shares of our common stock. These sales could cause the price of our stock to drop. 27 Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Therefore, the Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for a stagge red or classified board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each serving staggered three-year terms. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 