ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we deem currently to be material, and do not represent all of the risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider material may in the future become material and impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: Risks Related to our Business We have minimal operating history as an independent company upon which investors can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent public company encounters. We have a limited operating history as an independent public company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business plan. Further, at this stage of our operation, we face certain risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by new companies in an intensely competitive industry. Our prospects must be considered in light of these risks. Our performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our properties are subject to developments that affect real estate generally and that are specific to our properties. If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the income generated by our properties: •downturns in the economic conditions at the national, regional or local levels, particularly a decline in one or more of our primary markets; •competition from other master planned communities, retail properties, office properties or other commercial space; 22 Table of Contents •increases in interest rates; •the availability of financing, including refinancing or extensions of existing mortgage debt, on acceptable terms, or at all; •increased operating costs, including insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; •vacancies and changes in rental rates; •declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; •declines in consumer confidence and spending that adversely affect our revenue from our retail properties; •natural disasters or terrorist acts which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; •adoption of more restrictive laws and government regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and an increase in real estate taxes; and •opposition from local community or political groups with respect to the development, construction or operations at a particular site. We may face potential difficulties in obtaining operating and development capital. The successful execution of our business strategy will require us to obtain substantial amounts of operating and development capital. Sources of such capital could include bank borrowings, public and private offerings of debt or equity, or sale of certain assets including joint venture interests to one or more third parties. Although the sourcing of new financing for real estate development and acquisition projects, as well as basic working capital needs have improved, we may be unable to obtain financing in the future and financing we are able to secure may only be available on unfavorable terms. The slow recovery in the national economy, or a downturn in national or regional economic conditions, could adversely impact our business. The latest recession and subsequent slow growth in the national economy has resulted in prolonged high unemployment and lower consumer spending as compared to pre-recession levels. Our business may suffer until market conditions improve. If market conditions were to worsen, the demand for our real estate products could decline, negatively impacting our earnings, cash flow and liquidity. The housing market and the demand from builders for lots vary depending on location. Projected lot sales used in our feasibility analyses may not be met. In addition, the success of our master planned communities business is heavily dependent on local housing markets in Las Vegas, Nevada, Houston, Texas and Baltimore, Maryland/Washington, D.C., which in turn are dependent on the health and growth of the economies and availability of credit in these regions. We may be unable to develop and expand our properties in our Strategic Developments segment. Our business objective related to our Strategic Developments segment is to develop and redevelop our properties, which we may be unable to do if we do not have or cannot obtain sufficient capital to proceed with planned development, redevelopment or expansion activities. We may be unable to obtain anchor store, mortgage lender and property partner approvals that are required for any such development, redevelopment or expansion. We may abandon redevelopment or expansion activities already under way that we are unable to complete, which may result in charge-offs of costs previously capitalized. In addition, if redevelopment, expansion or reinvestment projects are unsuccessful, the 23 Table of Contents investment in such projects may not be fully recoverable from future operations or sale resulting in impairment charges. We are exposed to risks associated with the development or redevelopment of our properties. Our development or redevelopment activities entail risks that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including: •increased construction costs for a project that exceeded our original estimates due to increases in materials, labor or other costs, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase of construction costs; •construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; •claims for construction defects after a property has been developed; •compliance with building codes and other local regulations; and •an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects. Development of properties in our Strategic Developments segment entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requires discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political and uncertain. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. In addition, our competitors and local residents may challenge our efforts to obtain entitlements and permits for the development of properties. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our Strategic Developments segment activities. Our Master Planned Communities segment is highly dependent on homebuilders. We are highly dependent on our relationships with homebuilders to purchase lots at our master planned communities. Our business will be adversely affected if homebuilders do not view our master planned communities as desirable locations for homebuilding operations. Also, some homebuilders may be unwilling or unable to close on previously committed lot purchases. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuation by various factors that are beyond our control. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations by various factors that are beyond our control. Fluctuations in these factors may decrease or eliminate the income generated by a property, and include: •the regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by material relocation by residents, industry slowdowns, plant closings, increased unemployment, lack of availability of consumer credit, levels of consumer debt, housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors; •local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants; 24 Table of Contents •perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property; •the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the internet; •our ability to lease space, collect rent and attract new tenants; and •tenant rental rates, which may decline for a variety of reasons, including the impact of co-tenancy provisions in lease agreements with certain tenants. A decline in our results of operations could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. When a lease expires, a tenant may elect not to renew it. We may not be able to re-let the property on similar terms, if we are able to re-let the property at all. The terms of renewal or re-lease (including the cost of required tenant improvements, renovations and/or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than the prior lease. If we are unable to re-let all or a substantial portion of our properties, or if the rental rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures and our ability to make expected distributions, may be adversely effected. The Houston, Texas economy is highly dependent on the energy sector. The greater Houston area is home to a large number of energy companies. A decline in the energy sector could have a significant negative effect on the performance of energy companies and may lead to layoffs. A decrease in economic activity and increased unemployment levels in Houston may negatively affect The Woodlands and Bridgeland by decreasing demand for housing and commercial space. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. The nature and extent of the competition we face depends on the type of property. With respect to our master planned communities, we compete with other landholders and residential and commercial property developers in the development of properties within the Las Vegas, Nevada, Houston, Texas and Baltimore/Washington, D.C. markets. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate, sell undeveloped rural land, attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel, or obtain construction materials and labor. These competitive conditions can make it difficult to sell land at desirable prices and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our operating retail properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at these properties face continued competition from other retailers, including retailers at other regional shopping centers, outlet malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, internet sales and telemarketing. Competition of this type could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment and development opportunities. These competitors include REITs and private institutional investors. 25 Table of Contents Our business model includes entering into joint venture arrangements with strategic partners. This model may not be successful and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to successfully attract desirable strategic partners or complete agreements with strategic partners or if our strategic partners fail to satisfy their obligations to the joint venture. We currently have and intend to enter into future joint venture partnerships. These joint venture partners may bring local market knowledge and relationships, development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. In the future, we may not have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners. We also may not be able to attract partners who want to conduct business in the locations where our properties are located, and who have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities. While we generally participate in making decisions for our jointly owned properties and assets, we might not always have the same objectives as the partner in relation to a particular asset, and we might not be able to formally resolve any issues that arise. In addition, actions by a partner may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreements, be contrary to our instructions or requests or result in adverse consequences. We cannot control the ultimate outcome of any decision made, which may be detrimental to our interests. Some of our interests, such as the Summerlin Medical Hospital Center and Hexalon, are controlled entirely by our partners. The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our joint ventures could materially and adversely affect the relevant property or properties. If this occurred, we would be precluded from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without prior court approval which would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than would otherwise be required. If the recoverable values of our real estate assets were to drop below the book value of those properties, we would be required to write-down the book value of those properties, which would have an adverse effect on our balance sheet and our earnings. Adverse market conditions, in certain circumstances, may require the book value of real estate assets to be decreased, often referred to as a "write-down" or "impairment." A write-down of an asset would decrease the value of the asset on our balance sheet and would reduce our earnings for the period in which the write-down is recorded. If market conditions were to deteriorate, and the recoverable values for our real estate assets and land were to fall below the book value for these assets, we could be required to take additional write-downs of the book value for those assets and such write-downs could be material. Indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated debt was approximately $688.3 million, of which $7.0 million is recourse. Our share of the debt of our Real Estate Affiliates is $1.4 million. Our indebtedness, particularly if increased over time, could have important consequences, including: •limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of business strategy or other purposes; 26 Table of Contents •limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of the business or to pay dividends; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given that certain indebtedness bears interest at variable rates; •limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, reinvest in and develop their properties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; •limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and •giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on assets. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants that could affect our operating activities. Certain of our loan agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including minimum net worth requirements, maximum payout ratios on distributions, minimum debt yield ratios, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratios. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain transactions that might otherwise be advantageous. In addition, failure to meet certain of these financial covenants could cause an event of default under and accelerate some or all of such indebtedness which could have a material adverse effect on us. The derivative instruments that we may use to hedge against interest rate fluctuations may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate swap agreements. There cannot be any assurance that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging of these transactions will not result in losses. Our policy is to use derivatives only to hedge interest rate risks related to our borrowings, not for speculative or trading purposes, and to enter into contracts only with major financial institutions based on their credit ratings and other factors. These hedging arrangements, which could include a number of counterparties, may expose us to additional risks, including failure of any of our counterparties to perform under these contracts, and may involve extensive costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate them. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, hedging instruments involve risks because the business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we entered into a hedging transaction will most likely result in the counterparty's default on its obligation to pay. Further, the credit quality of the counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impacts our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction. Changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated and combined financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws and rates. To the extent 27 Table of Contents adjustments are required in any given period, we include the adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. We may not realize the value of our tax assets. Certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code could limit our ability to fully utilize the tax assets if we were to experience a "change of control". If such an event were to occur, the cash flow benefits we might otherwise have received would be eliminated. Some of our directors are involved in other businesses including real estate activities and public and/or private investments and, therefore, may have competing or conflicting interests with us. Certain of our directors have and may in the future have interests in other real estate business activities, and may have control or influence over these activities or may serve as investment advisors, directors or officers. These interests and activities, and any duties to third parties arising from such interests and activities, could divert the attention of such directors from our operations. Additionally, certain of our directors are engaged in investment and other activities in which they may learn of real estate and other related opportunities in their non-director capacities. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our directors expressly provides, as permitted by Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), that our non-employee directors are not obligated to limit their interests or activities in their non-director capacities or to notify us of any opportunities that may arise in connection therewith, even if the opportunities are complementary to, or in competition with, our businesses. Accordingly, we have no expectation that we will be able to learn of or participate in such opportunities. If any potential business opportunity is expressly presented to a director exclusively in his or her director capacity, the director will not be permitted to pursue the opportunity, directly or indirectly through a controlled affiliate in which the director has an ownership interest, without the approval of the independent members of our board of directors. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company, with no operations of our own. In general, we rely on our subsidiaries for cash and our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. Our ability to generate cash to pay our operating expenses is dependent on the earnings of and the receipt of funds from subsidiaries through dividends and distributions. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make distributions or other payments to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their respective jurisdiction of organization, regulatory requirements, agreements entered into by those operating subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing or future outstanding indebtedness that we or our subsidiaries may incur. For example, the credit agreements entered into by certain of our subsidiaries for The Woodlands contain restrictions on their ability to pay dividends and make distributions. We may face potential successor liability. We may be subject to successor liability based on previous actions of our predecessors. Such liability may arise in a number of circumstances, such as: (1) if a creditor of our predecessors did not receive proper notice of the pendency of the GGP bankruptcy proceedings or the deadline for filing claims; (2) the injury giving rise to, or source of, a creditor's claim did not manifest itself in time for the creditor to file the creditor's claim; (3) a creditor did not timely file the creditor's claim in such bankruptcy case due to excusable neglect; (4) we are found liable for our predecessors' tax liabilities under a federal and/or state theory of successor liability; or (5) the order of confirmation for the GGP 28 Table of Contents bankruptcy plan is found to be procured by fraud. If we should become subject to such successor liability, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ineffective internal controls could impact the Company's business and results of operations. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in our implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters. A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and oil spills. Some of our properties, including Ward Centers, South Street Seaport and Riverwalk Marketplace are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by increases in sea levels, the frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, or environmental disasters, whether such events are caused by global climate changes or other factors. For example, some buildings at South Street Seaport suffered damage as a result of Superstorm Sandy. Some potential losses are not insured. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. A downgrade or financial failure of our insurance carrier may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. The insurance carriers that we utilize had satisfactory financial ratings at the time the policies were placed and made effective based on various insurance carrier rating agencies commonly used in the insurance industry. We cannot assure our investors that these financial ratings will remain satisfactory or constant throughout the policy period. There is a risk that these financial ratings may be downgraded throughout the policy period or that the insurance carries may experience a financial failure. A downgrade or financial failure of our insurance carriers may result in their inability to pay current and future claims. This inability to pay claims may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. In addition, a downgrade or a financial failure of our insurance carriers may cause our insurance renewal or replacement policy costs to increase. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult to renew or re-lease properties at lease rates equal to 29 Table of Contents or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of new or redeveloped properties, and limit access to capital or increase the cost of capital. We may be subject to potential costs to comply with environmental laws. Future development opportunities may require additional capital and other expenditures to comply with laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of certain properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims. We cannot predict with any certainty the magnitude of any expenditures relating to the environmental compliance or the long-range effect, if any, on our operations. Compliance with such laws has not had a material adverse effect on our operating results or competitive position in the past, but could have such an effect on our operating results and competitive position in the future. There is a risk of investor influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders. Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. ("Pershing Square"), General Trust Company, and Brookfield Retail Holdings LLC ("Brookfield") beneficially own 9.0%, 8.5% and 5.8%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock (excluding shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants) as of December 31, 2012. Under the terms of our stockholder agreements, Pershing Square currently has the ability to designate three members of our board of directors. Although Pershing Square has entered into a standstill agreement to limit its influence over us, the concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock held by General Trust Company, Pershing Square, Brookfield and other substantial stockholders may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders, or more likely with the support of these stockholders. The interests of our substantial stockholders could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by General Trust Company, Pershing Square and Brookfield, even if these stockholders are not acting in a coordinated manner, could allow General Trust Company, Pershing Square and Brookfield to influence our policies 30 Table of Contents and strategy and could delay, defer or prevent a change of control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable to us and our other stockholders. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our tenants and business partners and personally identifiable information of our employees on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Spin-off We may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes related to certain prior sales of assets in our Master Planned Communities segment. In connection with the spin-off, GGP has agreed to indemnify us from and against 93.75% of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities and reasonable expenses to which we become subject, in each case solely to the extent attributable to certain taxes related to sales of certain assets in our Master Planned Communities segment prior to March 31, 2010, in an amount equal to a maximum of $303.8 million, plus applicable interest. We will be responsible for the remainder of any such taxes. GGP may not have sufficient cash to reimburse us for its share of these taxes described above. As of December 31, 2012, the maximum amount covered by the GGP indemnity is $283.0 million plus applicable interest. We have ongoing litigation related to the foregoing taxes that, whether resolved in our favor or otherwise, could impact the timing of the items subject to indemnification by GGP. In addition, if the IRS were successful in litigation with respect to such audits, we may be required to change our method of tax accounting for certain transactions, which could affect the timing of our future tax payments, increasing our tax payments in the short term relative to our current tax cost projections. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: •our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and other factors related to our business; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; •changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; •the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; 31 Table of Contents •our ability to implement our business strategy; •our tax payments; •our ability to raise capital; •overall market fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Further, General Trust Company, Pershing Square and Brookfield may hold their investments for an extended period of time, thereby decreasing the number of shares available in the market and creating artificially low supply for, and trading prices of our common stock. If one or more of these principal holders sell a significant amount of our common stock, it could decrease the price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, Delaware law, stockholders rights agreement and certain other agreements may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following limitations: •the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent; •restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 15% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors; •rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and •the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation imposes certain restrictions on the direct or indirect transferability of our securities to assist in the preservation of our valuable tax attributes (generally consisting of (1) approximately $300 million of suspended federal income tax deductions and (2) a relatively high federal income tax basis in our assets), including, subject to certain exceptions, that until such time as our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to impose such restrictions (i) no person or entity may acquire or accumulate the Threshold Percentage (as defined below) or more (as determined under tax law principles governing the application of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) of our securities, and (ii) no person owning directly or indirectly (as determined under such tax law principles) on the date of our spin-off, after giving effect to the spin-off plan, the Threshold Percentage or more of our securities may acquire additional securities of ours. Notwithstanding the restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, no assurance can be given regarding our ability to preserve our tax attributes. Threshold Percentage means, in the case of (i) our common stock, 4.99% of the number of outstanding shares of our common stock and (ii) any other class of our equity, 4.99% of each such class. We have also implemented a so-called poison pill by adopting our stockholders rights agreement. The poison pill assists in the preservation of our valuable tax attributes by significantly increasing the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for the Threshold Percentage or more of our securities. The stockholders rights agreement expires on March 14, 2015. All of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents There may be dilution of our common stock from the exercise of outstanding warrants, which may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and negatively impact a holder's investments. The exercise of some or all of the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of our common stock held by Pershing Square and certain members of our management would materially dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Likewise, any additional issuances of common stock, through The Howard Hughes Corporation Amended and Restated 2010 Incentive Plan or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of such additional common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our outstanding warrants may encourage short selling or arbitrage trading activity by market participants because the exercise of our warrants could depress the price of our common stock. Additional issuances and sales of our capital stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a favorable time and price. Certain of our substantial stockholders, including Brookfield and Pershing Square, have the right to purchase the number of our shares as necessary to allow the stockholder to maintain its proportionate ownership interest on a fully diluted basis, for so long as the stockholder beneficially owns at least 5% of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis. In most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not additional capital stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock is issued. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock, and the value of our properties, stockholders may experience dilution in both the book value and the market value of their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 