D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We have a history of net losses. For the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we had net losses of RMB151.8 million, RMB39.2 million and RMB55.7 million (US$8.4 million), respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated shareholders’ deficit of RMB493.5 million (US$74.8 million). We cannot anticipate when, if ever, we will become profitable. Although we have been able to narrow our net loss in 2009 and 2010 through improved efficiency of our networks and operations and cost reduction measures, we cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve such efficiency or sustain such cost reduction. Furthermore, we expect our costs and expenses to increase as we continue to expand our business and operations. If we are unable to generate revenues that significantly exceed our costs and expenses, we may continue to incur losses in the future. We generate substantially all of our revenues from sales of content and application delivery services, and the failure of the market for these services to expand as we expect or the reduction in spending on these services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our business. We have generated substantially all of our revenues from sales of content and application delivery services. We expect such services to continue to be the primary source of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our success, therefore, depends on our customers’ continued and increasing reliance on the Internet for delivery of services and applications and our ability to deliver these services and applications cost-effectively. Factors that may have a general tendency to limit or reduce the number of users relying on the Internet for services and applications or the number of providers making services and applications available online would harm our business. As the content and application delivery service is still emerging, our success also depends on our ability to convince potential customers to entrust their services and applications to an external service provider, that content and application delivery technologies and services are valuable and that it is more cost-effective for them to utilize external services than for them to develop similar services in-house. A decline in the demand for content and application delivery services in general would negatively affect demand for our services. Even if demand for our services continues to grow, this demand may not grow as quickly as we anticipate. The influence of any of these factors may cause 5 Table of Contents our current or potential customers to reduce their spending on our services, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our costs and expenses may increase, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot pass on the increased costs to our customers. Since 2007, we have invested heavily in purchasing capital equipment to increase our network capacity. For example, for the three years ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a total of RMB154.0 million (US$23.3 million) in capital expenditures, which relates to our additions of property and equipment, such as the build-out and expansion of our network. In 2011 and beyond, we expect to increase our costs and expenses, including investments in additional bandwidth, servers and other equipment. Our capital expenditures are based upon our assumptions regarding the potential future demand. If we overestimate future demand for our services, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our capital expenditures and our results of operations may suffer dramatically. In addition, if our third-party bandwidth and other providers raise the prices of their services and products, we will incur increased costs in order to provide our services. If we cannot pass on the increased costs and expenses to our customers, or if our costs to deliver our services do not decline commensurate with any future declines in the prices we charge our customers, we may fail to achieve profitability. If we are unable to attract new customers or to retain existing customers, our revenues may decline. To increase our revenues, we plan to sell additional services to existing customers, encourage existing customers to increase their purchase volume and attract new customers. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to sell additional services to our current customers, retain our current customers or attract new customers. We typically sell our services pursuant to service agreements that are generally one year in duration. Although most of our service agreements contain renewal provisions, our customers have no obligation to renew the contracts after the expiration of their initial commitment period, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, some of our service agreements provide that customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements under certain circumstances. This, in addition to the changing competitive landscape in our market, means that we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors and reductions in our customers’ spending levels. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, 33.9%, 27.0% and 14.0%, respectively, of our total number of customers decided not to renew their contracts with us. If we cannot attract a sufficient number of new customers or increase the purchase volume of our existing customers to cover the loss of existing customers, our revenues may decline and our business will suffer. We may lose customers if they elect to develop solutions internally for the delivery of their content and applications. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own content and applications delivery service solutions rather than outsource these solutions to service providers like us. This is particularly true as our customers expand their operations and begin expending greater resources on delivering their Internet services and applications using their own solutions. For instance, we lost our then-largest customer in September 2008, a customer that contributed 24.4% and 16.0% of our total net revenues in 2007 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to its decision to develop in-house solutions. Our largest customer in 2009, Tencent, who contributed approximately 14.8% of our total net revenue in 2009, is no longer one of our top five customers and accounted for less than 2.5% of our total net revenues in 2010, partially due to its decision to develop in-house solutions. If we fail to offer services that are competitive to in-house developed solutions, we may continue to lose customers or fail to attract customers that develop solutions in-house, and our business and financial results would suffer. The decline in the price of our services could negatively impact our gross margins. The prices we can charge for our content and application delivery services have declined, and are expected to decline over time, as a result of, among other things, the increasing availability of bandwidth at reduced costs and existing and new competition in the markets. Also, we may be forced to reduce the price of our services due to reduced bargaining power with our customers. If the price that we are able to charge customers falls to a greater extent than we anticipate and we are not able to offset this decline with reduction in our cost of revenues, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our services to decline or become obsolete. Third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address Internet services and applications delivery requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our services. For instance, companies are looking to offer Internet-related solutions, such as peer-to-peer file sharing networks or cloud computing services, to address certain content and application delivery needs. Our existing and future competitors may introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality, price or performance of our services. We may not anticipate such developments and our services may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ demand for our services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and results of operations. If we are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing services or fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our results of operations may suffer. The market for the content and application delivery services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving customer needs and requirements, and frequent new product and service introductions. Our results of operations depend on our ability to develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain. We must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before we are able to develop services that are widely accepted by the market. For example, individuals are increasingly using mobile devices to access Internet content. Our ability to provide new and innovative solutions to address challenges posed by mobile device users and other technologies or market developments is important to our future growth. Furthermore, we may not successfully execute our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely manner, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. Failures in execution or market acceptance of new services we introduce could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do, which could lead to loss of market share, revenues and earnings. The Internet and Internet-based services in China may fail to grow as quickly as expected. Our future success depends on the growth of the Internet in China. In particular, our business strategy and growth depend on the continued development and utilization of Internet-based services such as online games, rich media content, online advertising, e-commerce and mobile Internet. Online games, rich media content, e-commerce and mobile Internet are relatively new developments in China and may be impacted by regulatory changes in China. Our business prospects and future growth could suffer if the Internet or the markets for these Internet-based services in China fail to grow as quickly as anticipated. Furthermore, even if the Internet and Internet-based services in China grow as expected, we may fail to successfully implement our growth strategies, which could have a material adverse impact over our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our existing and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models which, if unsuccessful, could lead to a substantial decline in demand for our services. Because the proliferation of broadband Internet connections and the subsequent monetization of Internet services and applications are relatively recent phenomena in China, the business models of many of our existing and potential customers primarily focus on the delivery of Internet content and applications to users and remain unproven. For example, user-generated content websites, media companies and online game operators have been among our customers and are pursuing emerging strategies for monetizing their Internet services and applications or traffic on their websites. These companies will not continue to purchase our content and application delivery services if their Internet services or applications fail to generate a sufficient return on their investment or if their own business models fail to succeed. Moreover, some of our existing and potential customers are pursuing business in areas which have undefined regulatory parameters in China, and such companies face a risk of having their activities restricted or shut down for regulatory reasons. A reduction in spending on our services by our existing and potential customers or our customers’ inability or refusal to pay us due to their own financial condition or other reasons would harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from, these customers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, a relatively small number of customers typically accounts for a significant percentage of our revenue. For example, our single largest customer contributed 24.4%, 16.0%, 14.8% and 15.1% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Furthermore, our five largest customers contributed 42.0%, 38.2%, 34.8% and 33.5% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. In the past, our top five customers have continually changed, and we also have experienced significant fluctuations in our individual customers’ usage of our services. In addition, our operating costs are relatively fixed in the near term. As a consequence, we may not be able to adjust our expenses in the short term to address the unanticipated loss of a large customer during any particular period. As such, we may experience significant and unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations which may cause us to not meet our expectations or those of stock market analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our business substantially depends on telecommunications carriers and other third-party providers for communications and storage capacity. Any change that adversely affects our communications and storage capacity could result in interruptions in our services. Our business and operations are dependent upon telecommunications carriers and other third-party providers for communications and storage capacity, including bandwidth, optical fiber cable, servers and other equipment. We obtain bandwidth primarily from telecommunications carriers. We lease optical fiber cable to serve as part of our private transmission backbone from third-party providers. We purchase servers and other equipment from suppliers and deploy our servers in numerous third-party co-location facilities. In addition, we need access to end-user access networks operated by telecommunications carriers and Internet service providers, or ISPs, in order to complete the delivery of Internet content and applications to end-users. We believe that we currently have good business relationships with telecommunications carriers and our major third-party providers, and we have access to adequate communications and storage capacity to provide our services. However, there can be no assurance that we will always be able to secure communications and storage capacity on commercially acceptable terms, and that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands or unplanned network interruptions. If we are unable to obtain transmission capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results could suffer. In the past, system disruptions in the networks of certain regional telecommunications carriers and ISPs have affected our ability to provide our services. Some telecommunications carriers or ISPs may also take measures, such as the deployment of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to networks operated by them. Telecommunications carriers and ISPs could also decide to limit or prohibit the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or charge additional fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. Third-party suppliers may not be able to meet our demand for servers or other equipment in a timely manner. In addition, as we deploy our servers in numerous third-party co-location facilities, any system outages or other disruptions in these third-party facilities could constrain our ability to deliver our services. Any of these interruptions, interferences or restrictions could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. The global financial crisis has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, and most of the world’s major economies have been or are still in recession. To the extent that there has been improvement in some areas, it is unclear whether the recovery is sustainable. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Since we currently derive substantially all of our revenues from customers in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent customers are unable to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf due to an economic slowdown or otherwise, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver on their behalf. Such reductions in traffic would lead to a reduction in our revenues. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, slowdown in commerce over the Internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. 8 Table of Contents Suppliers on which we rely for servers, bandwidth, co-location and other services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect to continue to experience intense competition. We compete in a market that is intensely competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by vendors offering a wide range of content and application delivery services. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition. In China, we primarily compete with domestic content and application delivery service providers. Our primary domestic competitors include ChinaNetCenter, Dnion Technology and 21Vianet. Although multinational companies currently do not have a significant presence in the content and application delivery services market in China, in part due to regulatory restrictions in China’s telecommunications sector, we may face competition from multinational companies if regulatory restrictions in China are lifted in the future. Also, as a result of the growth of the content delivery services market, a number of companies are currently attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Some of our current or potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may have stronger governmental support. Some of our competitors may offer lower prices on competing services in order to gain market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Furthermore, some of our current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage content providers from purchasing the services that we offer. Increased competition could result in price reductions and revenue decline, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable delivery of Internet content and applications. Many of our customers depend on our services to operate their businesses. Consequently, any disruption of our services could have a material impact on our customers’ businesses. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, power losses and failure of our software or network. From time to time, we need to correct errors and defects in our software or in other aspects of our network. There may be errors and defects originating with third-party networks or software on which we rely that harm our ability to deliver our services. We may also experience disruptions caused by software viruses or other attacks by unauthorized users. Despite our significant capital investments, we may have insufficient communications and server capacity to address these or other disruptions, which could result in interruptions in our services. Any widespread interruption of the functioning of our networks and related services for any reason would reduce our revenues and could harm our business and financial results. If such a widespread interruption occurred or if we failed to deliver Internet services and applications to users as expected during a high-profile media event or well-publicized circumstance, our reputation could be severely damaged. Moreover, any disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing network to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements. Our services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. Our network must perform well and be reliable in order for us to be successful. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more resources we will need to invest in additional network capacity and support. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase and lease of equipment and data centers and the upgrade of our technology and network to handle increased traffic over our network and to roll out new products and services. This expansion is expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies, operational failures or defects in our network and related software. If we do not expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and user experience could decline. These occurrences could damage our reputation and lead to a loss of current and potential customers. We must continuously upgrade our network in order to keep pace with our customers’ evolving demands. Cost increases or the failure to accommodate increased traffic or these evolving business demands without disruption could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations in recent years and we anticipate further expansion in the future. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also require us to maintain the consistency of our service offerings to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our service offerings. Our future results of operations depend to a large extent on our ability to manage this expansion and growth successfully. Risks that we face in undertaking this expansion include: · training new sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue; · controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; · implementing and enhancing our network; and · addressing new markets. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any difficulties identifying and consummating future acquisitions or integrating current and future acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Selective acquisitions and strategic investments form part of our strategy to further expand our business. However, we may not be successful in identifying and consummating future acquisitions and strategic investments, which could impair our growth potential. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition, potential unknown liabilities or penalties associated with acquired businesses. Any inability to integrate operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our business strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. In addition, future acquisitions and strategic investments will require the use of our available cash or dilutive issuances of securities. We may also experience significant turnover from the acquired operations or from our current operations as we integrate businesses. Such difficulties in identifying and consummating future acquisitions and strategic investments or any difficulties encountered in integrating current and future acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may need to record additional impairment charges to earnings, incur additional post-acquisition settlement consideration in connection with our JNet Holdings acquisition, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our strategy, we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, companies that are complementary to our business. We record goodwill if the purchase price we pay in such acquisition exceeds the amount assigned to the fair value of the assets or business acquired. We are required to test our goodwill and acquired intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. We have, in the past, recorded impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, we recognized an impairment of goodwill and related acquired intangible assets of approximately RMB75.1 million, RMB6.9 million and nil, respectively, in connection with our acquisition of JNet Holdings and obtaining control over Shanghai JNet. The impairment was primarily attributable to the resulting and continuing effects of the economic downturn coupled with declines in customer demand, intense pricing pressure and increasing competition. If the carrying value of our acquisition goodwill and related acquired intangible assets in connection with our past or future acquisitions are determined to be impaired, we would be required to reflect additional charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such goodwill and acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired. In addition, we incurred additional expenses in the amount of RMB37.9 million (US$5.7 million) during 2010, which was associated with a supplementary agreement we entered into in January 2010 with Sundream Holdings Limited and Smart Asia Holdings Limited, the sellers of JNet Holdings. A major portion of this expense was estimated based on the projected pre-tax income for 2010 to 2012, which will be remeasured at each financial reporting period until final measurement can be completed or once actual pre-tax income can be determined for these years. As a result, the actual results may differ from these original estimates resulting in actual 10 Table of Contents future payments significantly exceeding this estimate. Furthermore, pursuant to the supplementary agreement, we issued additional 1,030,215 ordinary shares to Sundream Holdings Limited and Smart Asia Holdings Limited after the completion of our initial public offering. We recorded a charge of RMB6.0 million (US$0.9 million) in 2010 as a result of this issuance of 1,030,215 ordinary shares to the sellers of JNet Holdings, based on our initial public offering price of US$13.90 per ADS. Our results of operations may fluctuate in the future. This may result in significant volatility in, and otherwise adversely affect, the market for our ADSs. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. Fluctuations in our results of operations could result in significant volatility in, and otherwise adversely affect, the market price of our ordinary shares. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: · our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; · the loss of major customers, or a significant variation in their use of our services; · costs associated with future intellectual property lawsuits; · service outages or security breaches; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and network; · the occurrence of significant events in a particular period that results in an increase in the use of our services, such as a major media event or a customer’s online release of a new or updated video game; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · share-based compensation expenses associated with attracting and retaining key personnel; · limitations of the capacity of our platform and related systems; · the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; · general economic, industry, market and regulatory conditions and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; and · reduced usage of our services by our customers. Our revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. 11 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. Our technologies and business methods, including those relating to our content and application delivery services, may be subject to third-party claims or rights that limit or prevent their use. Companies, organizations or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. Intellectual property registrations or applications by others relating to the type of services that we provide may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we are likely to face a higher risk of being subject to intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. The global content and application delivery services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement claims may further increase as the number of products, services and competitors in our market increases. Further, continued success in this market may provide an impetus to those who might use intellectual property litigation as a tool against us. It is critical that we use and develop our technology and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including but not limited to patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our customers against infringement claims in certain instances. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As of the date of this annual report, we have 9 patents, 24 patent applications and 14 software copyright registrations in China relating to the technologies used in our business. However, we have no issued patents in the U.S. Certain U.S.-based companies have been granted patents or have licensed patents in the U.S. relating to the content and application delivery business. In the past, we have conducted substantially all of our business operations in China. In August 2007, we established a U.S. subsidiary, ChinaCache North America, Inc., primarily to support our marketing efforts in North America. We primarily rely upon our local business partners in the U.S. to address our content and application delivery needs in those markets. However, the possibility of intellectual property rights infringement claims against us may still increase as we expand outside China. If we fail to defend ourselves against any intellectual property infringement claim, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, software registration and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of the date of this annual report, we have 9 patents, 24 patent applications and 14 software copyright registrations. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators are required to enter into confidentiality agreements. However, a patent filing may not result in an issued patent and an issued patent may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights and our current patent portfolio may not be broad enough to protect our technologies. In addition, implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to 12 Table of Contents enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If our ability to deliver services and applications in popular proprietary formats is restricted or becomes cost-prohibitive, demand for our services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. Our business partially depends on our ability to deliver Internet services and applications in all major formats. If our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver Internet services and applications in one or more popular proprietary formats, such as Adobe Flash or Windows Media, is limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content and application delivery services by customers using these formats would decline. Owners of proprietary formats may be able to block, restrict, or impose fees or other costs on, our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of Internet services and applications altogether. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenues, results of operations and growth. If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that they rely on in implementing our business plan. We do not have “key person” insurance policies covering any of our officers or other key employees, and we therefore have no way of mitigating our financial loss were we to lose their services. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations, delay the development and introduction of our services, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services. There is increasing competition for qualified individuals with the specialized knowledge relevant to providing content and application network services and this competition affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. If we cannot identify and hire additional qualified employees, or if we fail to provide appropriate training, career opportunities or otherwise motivate and retain our quality employees, we may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategies and our business could suffer. We may not be able to recoup our investment in international expansions. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our international network. We have limited experience in providing our services internationally and such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, including the purchase of additional network equipment and the hiring of local employees, in advance of generating any revenues. As a consequence, we may fail to achieve profitability or recoup our investment in international locations. If we fail to maintain a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may be adversely impacted. Maintaining and enhancing the value of our “ChinaCache” and “Blue I.T.” brands is important to attracting customers. Our success in maintaining brand awareness and recognition in the content and application delivery services market in China will depend on our ability to consistently provide high-quality, value-added services and solutions. As our business grows, we plan to continue to focus our efforts to establish a wider recognition of our “ChinaCache” and “Blue I.T.” brands to attract potential customers, which may require additional marketing resources. We cannot assure you that we will effectively allocate our resources for these activities or succeed in maintaining and broadening our brand recognition and appeal. If we fail to maintain a strong brand identity, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. If we are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to obtain additional funding due to a number of factors beyond our control, including a shortfall in revenues, increased expenses, increased investment in capital equipment or the acquisition of significant businesses or technologies. We believe that our cash plus cash from operating activities will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. If for unforeseen circumstances we do need to obtain additional funding, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business would be harmed. Even if we are able to find outside funding sources, we may be required to issue securities in a transaction that could be highly dilutive to our investors or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We may also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our ADSs, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to generate or raise capital that is sufficient 13 Table of Contents to fund our operations, we may be required to curtail operations, reduce our capabilities or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or completely. If our preferential tax treatments become unavailable or if the calculation of our tax liability is successfully challenged by the PRC tax authorities, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, effective as of January 1, 2008, significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under the previous tax law. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, permits certain “high and new enterprises strongly supported by the state” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property and simultaneously meet a list of other financial or non-financial criteria to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain new qualification criteria. In December 2008, Beijing Blue I.T. was recognized as a “high and new technology enterprise” and was eligible for the reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate from 2008 through 2010. Beginning in 2011, Beijing Blue I.T.’s continued qualification as a “high and new technology enterprise” will be subject to annual evaluation in practice and a three-year review by the relevant government authorities in China. If Beijing Blue I.T. fails to maintain its “high and new technology enterprise” qualification or renew its qualification, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments currently enjoyed by Beijing Blue I.T. could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to complex income tax and other taxing regulations and significant judgment is required in the determination of a provision for income taxes. For instance, Shanghai JNet, our consolidated variable interest entity, prepared its income tax returns for 2008, 2009 and 2010 on a “deemed income” basis. Shanghai JNet’s tax returns for 2008 and 2009 have been approved by the local tax authorities and are not currently under any tax audit; however, if the Chinese tax authorities should later determine that Shanghai JNet’s tax returns for these years should have been prepared on a different basis that would result in a higher tax liability, Shanghai JNet may be ordered to pay more tax and related interests and penalties. We have recorded an accrual of RMB55.9 million on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 to reflect the management’s estimate of our potential tax liability, penalty and interests. Although we believe our tax provisions are reasonable, if the PRC tax authorities successfully challenge our positions and we are required to pay tax, interests and penalties in excess of our tax provisions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Our computer data may also be vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our customers. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter customers from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. If we fail to establish or maintain an effective system of internal controls over our financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may, therefore, be adversely impacted. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. For example, as a public company in the United States we are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, which requires that we include a management assessment of, and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning for the year ending December 31, 2011. During the assessment process that we will undertake for compliance with Section 404, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404, and our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is 14 Table of Contents not effective. In addition, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective and may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to establish and maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting could increase the risk of material misstatements in our financial statements and cause failure to meet our financial and other reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a significant decline in the trading price of our ADSs. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one “material weakness” and certain other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. As defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States, a “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified related to our lack of adequate resources with the requisite U.S. GAAP and SEC financial accounting and reporting expertise to support the accurate and timely assembly and presentation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” for additional information with respect to certain deficiencies identified in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of remediating such material weakness and other deficiencies. However, the remedial measures that we have taken or intend to take may not fully address such material weakness and other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. If we fail to timely remedy the material weakness and other control deficiencies, and achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have an effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, an effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and credibility of our management, which in turn could negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In 2011, we expect these costs to be in an amount of RMB3.0 million (US$0.5 million). We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive plans, resulting in increased share based compensation expenses and, therefore, adversely affecting our results of operations. We adopted three stock incentive plans in 2007, 2008 and 2010, respectively, and have granted options to purchase 22,591,260 of our ordinary shares in accordance with these plans as of the date of this annual report. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees¾Compensation¾Stock Incentive Plans.” For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we recorded RMB7.2 million, RMB12.4 million and RMB63.2 million (US$9.6 million), respectively, in share-based compensation expenses for employees and non-employees. In accordance with ASC 718, “Share-Based Payment,” we accounted for our options as liability awards and as such the share-based compensation liability was initially recognized at fair value on the date of grant and was subsequently remeasured at the end of each reporting period with an adjustment for fair value recorded to the current period expenses to properly reflect the cumulative expenses based on the current fair value of the vested options over the vesting period. Immediately following our initial public offering, we started to account for our share-based compensation as equity awards. During the period from January 1, 2011 to the date of this annual report, we accelerated the vesting of 332,500 stock options of certain terminated employees. As a result of that modification, we recognized additional compensation expenses during that period. If we grant more stock options to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share based compensation may adversely affect our results of operations. However, if we do not grant stock options or reduce the number of stock options that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from occurrence of natural catastrophes, acts of terrorism or fires, and we have limited insurance coverage. The occurrence of natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons or any acts of terrorism may result in significant property damages as well as loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. In addition, the provision of our services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, which are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural catastrophes and acts of terrorism. Some of our data centers 15 Table of Contents are located in areas with a high risk of typhoons or earthquakes. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for every conceivable possibility. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our services, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our systems are unreliable. The insurance industry in China is not fully developed. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. While business disruption insurance may be available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption and the difficulties and costs associated with acquiring such insurance render it commercially impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. On May 12, 2008 and April 14, 2010, severe earthquakes hit part of Sichuan province in southeastern China and part of Qinghai province in western China, respectively, resulting in significant casualties and property damage. While we did not suffer any loss or experience any significant increase in cost resulting from these earthquakes, if a similar disaster were to occur in the future affecting Beijing or another city where we have major operations in China, our operations could be materially and adversely affected due to loss of personnel and damages to property. In addition, a similar disaster affecting a larger, more developed area could also cause an increase in our costs resulting from the efforts to resurvey the affected area. In April 2009, a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1, commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In early June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak to be a pandemic, while noting that most of the illnesses were of moderate severity. The PRC Ministry of Health has reported several hundred deaths caused by influenza A (H1N1). Any outbreak of avian influenza, SARS, influenza A (H1N1) or other adverse public health epidemic in China may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. These occurrences could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our customers’ offices to provide on-site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the telecommunications business, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC government regulates telecommunications-related businesses through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership of PRC companies that engage in telecommunications-related business. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any PRC company engaging in value-added telecommunications business. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and regulations, and our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, is a foreign-invested enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our content and application delivery businesses in China through three sets of contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet, and their respective shareholders. These contractual arrangements provide ChinaCache Beijing with effective control over Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Variable Interest Entities.” The MIIT issued a circular in July 2006 requiring a foreign investor to set up a foreign-invested enterprise and obtain a value-added telecommunications business operating license, or VAT license, in order to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Pursuant to this circular, a domestic VAT license holder is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local VAT license holder or its shareholder. The circular further requires each VAT license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its 16 Table of Contents license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretations from the regulator, it is unclear what impact this circular will have on us or other similarly situated companies. In the opinion of Han Kun Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, (i) the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiary, our PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their branches and subsidiaries comply with all existing PRC laws and regulations; (ii) each of the contracts under the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiary, PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders governed by PRC law are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (iii) the business operations of our PRC subsidiary, our PRC consolidated variable interest entities and their branches and subsidiaries are in all material respects in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations and the terms of their licenses and permits. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, and the above circular. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities that regulate providers of content and application delivery services and other participants in the telecommunications industry, in particular, the MIIT, will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If our corporate and contractual structure is deemed by the MIIT to be illegal, either in whole or in part, we may have to modify such structure to comply with regulatory requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we can achieve this without material disruption to our business. Further, if our corporate and contractual structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking our business and operating licenses; · levying fines on us; · confiscating any of our income that they deem to be obtained through illegal operations; · shutting down a portion or all of our networks and servers; · discontinuing or restricting our operations in China; · imposing conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply; · requiring us to restructure our corporate and contractual structure; · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from a public offering to finance our PRC affiliated entities’ business and operations; and · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ChinaCache Beijing’s contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet may result in adverse tax consequences to us. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that ChinaCache Beijing’s contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet were not made on an arm’s length basis and adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by (i) increasing the respective tax liabilities of Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet without reducing ChinaCache Beijing’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet for underpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of ChinaCache Beijing, Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian or Shanghai JNet to obtain or maintain preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. 17 Table of Contents We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet and their respective shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet, and their respective shareholders, to operate our business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Variable Interest Entities.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our consolidated variable interest entities. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our consolidated variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce such arrangements in reliance on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system and we may incur substantial costs and expend significant resources in pursuing such enforcement actions. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our consolidated variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit legal protections available to you and us.” 18 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet, are also the founders, directors, executive officers, employees or ultimate shareholders of our company. Conflicts of interests between their roles may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause our consolidated variable interest entities to breach the existing contractual arrangements. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on these individuals to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of our three consolidated variable interest entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our consolidated variable interest entities that are important to the operation of our business if any of our consolidated variable interest entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet, and their shareholders, our consolidated variable interest entities hold certain assets that are important to our business operation. If any of our consolidated variable interest entities goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the consolidated variable interest entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and result of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business may be adversely affected by government policies and regulations in China. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce conducted over the Internet are becoming more prevalent in China, and may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing Internet-related services such as us and many of our customers. Increased regulation could negatively affect our business directly, as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws and regulations prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider to block any Internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to comply with the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the dissemination of online information. Our business may be adversely affected if any of our customers’ websites are restricted, blocked or closed or if we face liability for content distributed over our network. For instance, in August 2010, we received a warning from a local public security bureau in Beijing for omission to examine the third-party content distributed over our network. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. In April 2007, the General Administration of Press and Publication of China and several other governmental authorities issued a circular requiring the implementation of an “anti-fatigue system” and a real-name registration system by all PRC online game operators in an effort to curb addictive game play behaviors of minors under the age of eighteen. In 19 Table of Contents addition, it is also possible that the PRC government authorities may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction or otherwise. The implementation of these regulations may discourage or otherwise prevent or restrict minors from playing online games, which could limit the growth of online game operators, one of our key customer groups, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television and the MIIT issued the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that only entities wholly owned or controlled by state-owned enterprises may apply for “the Internet Audio-Video Program Operating License” to engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transfer to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, and the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. In addition, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures require that, when providing signal transmission for Internet Audio-Video programs, network operators are obligated to examine the licenses or permits of the Internet Audio-Video Programs service providers and must provide Internet access services within the scope of such licenses or registration documents. The Internet Audio-Video Program Measures further provide that no entity may provide signal transmission, Internet data center services, fee collection or other financial or technical services to Internet Audio-Video Programs service providers that do not have applicable licenses or permits. Although we do not provide audio-video programs on our own, our content and application delivery services include provision of technical assistance to customers, social networking operators in particular, in the uploading and transmission of user-generated content, including audio-video programs. There are significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. Accordingly, if we are required to verify our customers’ Internet Audio-Video Program Operating Licenses, such requirements may impose additional obligations on us, which may increase our expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any of these factors could cause significant disruption to our operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to acquire, obtain or maintain applicable telecommunications licenses, or are deemed by relevant governmental authorities to be operating outside the terms of our existing license, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the PRC State Council in September 2000, telecommunications businesses are divided into two categories, namely, (i) “basic telecommunications business,” which refers to a business that provides public network infrastructure, public data transmission and basic voice communications services, and (ii) “value-added telecommunications business,” which refers to a business that provides telecommunications and information services through the public network infrastructure. Pursuant to the VAT license issued to Beijing Blue I.T. by the MIIT in October 2007, Beijing Blue I.T. is permitted to carry out its content and application delivery business and its Internet data center business under the first category of “value-added telecommunications business.” Based on this VAT license and our consultation with certain officials of the MIIT, we believe that, in practice, our content and application delivery business falls under the category of “value-added telecommunications business,” and we are permitted to operate our content and application delivery services under Beijing Blue I.T.’s VAT license. However, since China’s content and application delivery services market is at an early stage of development, the scope of content and application delivery businesses has been expanding constantly and the concept of content and application delivery services is evolving. We have been continuously developing our content and application delivery business to better serve our customers, and as a result, we introduce new technologies and services from time to time to support and improve our current business. As of the date of this annual report, there is no legal definition as to what constitutes a “content and application delivery business,” nor are there laws or regulations in China specifically governing the content and application delivery business. We cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will continue to deem our content and application delivery business and any of our newly developed technologies, network and services used in our business as a type of value-added telecommunications business covered under the VAT license of Beijing Blue I.T. As we expand our networks across China, it is also possible that the MIIT, in the future, may deem our operations to have exceeded the terms of our existing license. Further, we cannot assure you that Beijing Blue I.T. will be able to successfully renew its VAT license upon its expiration, or that its VAT license will continue to cover all aspects of our content and application delivery business and operations upon its renewal. In addition, new laws, regulations or government interpretations may also be promulgated from time to time to regulate the content and application delivery business or any of our related technology or services, which may require us to obtain additional, or expand existing, operating licenses or permits. Any of these factors could result in Beijing Blue I.T. being disqualified from carrying out its current business, causing significant disruption to our business operations which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past several decades, the growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such a slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. The PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. From late 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines that had the effect of slowing the growth of credit, which in turn may have slowed the growth of the Chinese economy. In response to the global and Chinese economic downturn in 2008, the PRC government promulgated several measures aimed at expanding credit and stimulating economic growth including decreasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and lowering benchmark interest rates several times. Since January 2010, however, the People’s Bank of China has increased the statutory deposit reserve ratio in response to rapid growth of credit in 2009. It is unclear whether PRC economic policies will be effective in maintaining stable economic growth in the future. Any slowdown in the economic growth of China could lead to reduced demand for our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit legal protections available to you and us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiary and consolidated variable interest entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. ChinaCache Beijing is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past several decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary and affiliated entities, which are limited liability companies established in China. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiary for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated 21 Table of Contents profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, it is required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if ChinaCache Beijing incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of ChinaCache Beijing to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC resident shareholders. Pursuant to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The term “de facto management body” is defined as the management body that exercises full and substantial control and overall management over the business, productions, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. Given that the Enterprise Income Tax Law is relatively new and ambiguous in terms of some definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow: (i) we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations, and (ii) a 10% withholding tax may be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC resident shareholders and a 10% PRC tax may apply to gains derived by our non-PRC resident shareholders from transferring our shares or ADSs, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income. Similarly, such unfavorable tax consequences could apply to ChinaCache North America Inc., JNet Holdings and ChinaCache Network (Hong Kong) Limited if they are deemed to be “resident enterprises” by the PRC tax authorities. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Enterprise Income Tax Law also provides that the dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. If our Cayman Islands holding company is deemed a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, the dividends it receives from its PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, may constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and therefore qualify for tax exemption. However, the definition of qualified resident enterprises is unclear and the relevant PRC government authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Even if such dividends qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to any withholding tax. The M&A Rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rules include provisions that purport to require approval of the Ministry of Commerce for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons, and prohibit offshore entities from using their foreign-invested subsidiaries in China, or through “other means,” to circumvent such requirement. As part of our growth strategy, we obtained control over Shanghai JNet in January 2008 and Beijing Jingtian in July 2008 by entering into contractual arrangements with Shanghai JNet, Beijing Jingtian and their shareholders. We did not seek the approval of the Ministry of Commerce for these transactions based on the legal advice we obtained from our PRC legal counsel in those transactions that such approval was unnecessary. However, the M&A Rules also prohibit companies from using any “other means” to circumvent the approval requirement set forth therein and there is no clear interpretation as to what constitutes “other means” of circumvention of the requirement under the M&A Rules. The Ministry of Commerce and other applicable government authorities would therefore have broad discretion in determining whether an acquisition is in violation of the M&A Rules. If PRC regulatory authorities take a view that is contrary to ours, we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, we may in the future grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses in China. If we are required to obtain the approval from the Ministry of Commerce, completion of such transaction may be delayed or even inhibited. Our ability to expand our business or maintain or expand our market share through future acquisitions would as such be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from a public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary or affiliated entities, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, or affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to ChinaCache Beijing. Any loans to ChinaCache Beijing or affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to ChinaCache Beijing, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may also decide to finance our operations in China by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiary. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds from a public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues. Substantially all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC laws, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans, without the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. Currently, our PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. However, foreign exchange transactions by ChinaCache Beijing under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. In particular, if ChinaCache Beijing borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must first be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. If ChinaCache Beijing, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, borrows foreign currency, the accumulative amount of its foreign currency loans shall not exceed the difference between the total investment and the registered capital of ChinaCache Beijing. If we finance ChinaCache Beijing by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of our PRC subsidiary or affiliated entities to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to meet our foreign currency obligations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may reduce the value of an investment in our company. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. Because substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency 23 Table of Contents exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange issued Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the relevant local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interest in, PRC companies. In addition, any PRC resident that is the beneficial owner of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her registration with the local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any of its increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. Any failure to comply with the above registration requirements could result in PRC subsidiaries being prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company, the offshore parent company being restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries, and other liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Prior to our initial public offering, our current PRC resident beneficial owners had made the necessary registrations as required under Circular 75. Our founders, Song Wang and Jean Xiaohong Kou, recently established a trust to hold their shares in their personal offshore holding companies, which own our ordinary shares. As a result of our initial public offering, our founders need to amend their registrations under Circular 75 and are in the process of filing such amendments. In connection with our initial public offering, our PRC resident beneficial owners are required to further amend their registration under Circular 75. We cannot assure you that our current and future beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with Circular 75; nor can we ensure you that there will not be further filing or registration requirements imposed by the PRC government concerning ownership in foreign companies of PRC residents. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with these requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC subsidiary, ChinaCache Beijing, and affiliated entities, limit ChinaCache Beijing’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the Nasdaq Global Market on October 1, 2010, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$15.91 to US$32.80 per ADS, and last reported trading price on April 20, 2011 was US$17.60 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar; · intellectual property litigation; 24 Table of Contents · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or sales of additional ADSs; and · general economic or political conditions in China and the U.S. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All of our shares are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ADSs, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different from those of U.S. domestic reporting companies; as a result, you should not expect to receive the same information about us at the same time when a U.S. domestic reporting company provides the information required to be disclosed. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to the same requirements that are imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, we will be subject to reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We will have 120 days to file annual reports for the fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011. We are not required to disclose detailed individual executive compensation information that is required to be disclosed by U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act and are not subject to the insider short-swing profit disclosure and recovery regime. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act. Since many of the disclosure obligations imposed on us as a foreign private issuer are different than those imposed on U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive the same information about us and at the same time as the information received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our assets, which may be determined based on the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs, and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC. Under the U.S. federal tax law, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our current income and assets and projections as to the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. While we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or any subsequent taxable year. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate these entities’ results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of Beijing Blue I.T., Beijing Jingtian and Shanghai JNet for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and any subsequent taxable year. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually 25 Table of Contents after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current year or any subsequent taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets and the cash raised in any offering. Under circumstances where revenues from activities that produce passive royalty income significantly increase relative to our revenues from activities that produce non-passive income or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for working capital or other active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings and may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to the holders of ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. The holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and the holders of our ADSs will not receive such distribution. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. The ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and a majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiary in China. The majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for the holders of our ADSs to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that they believe that their rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if the holders of our ADSs are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the 26 Table of Contents laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render the holders of our ADSs unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (as amended) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a public company of the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have detailed requirements concerning corporate governance practices of public companies including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal controls over financial reporting. These new rules and regulations have increased our director and officer liability insurance, accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and have made certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If securities or industry analysts do not actively follow our business or if they publish unfavorable research about our business, our ADS price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our ADSs or publishes unfavorable research about our business, our ADS price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our ADSs could decrease, which could cause our ADS price and trading volume to decline. 27 Table of Contents 