D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our future growth depends on the increased acceptance of the internet as an effective marketing platform by the automotive industry and the increased internet penetration among the general population in China. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from providing internet marketing services to automakers and automobile dealers. However, internet marketing has not yet been widely accepted as an effective marketing platform by China’s automotive industry. Many of our current or potential customers have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising or marketing budgets to web-based media. They may have limited experience with the internet as an advertising and marketing medium and therefore may not find the internet to be effective for promoting their automobiles and related services. Some automakers and dealers may still prefer traditional print and broadcast media and may not be willing to spend a significant portion of their marketing budgets on online advertising. In addition, development of web software that blocks internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of internet marketing. Our customers may choose not to use internet marketing services if their advertisements cannot reach the intended population due to the block function of this kind of software. Any negative perceptions as to the effectiveness of internet marketing services may limit the growth of our business and adversely affect our results of operations. If the internet does not become more widely accepted as a media platform for advertising and marketing, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Internet usage in China is limited among the general population. China has a relatively low penetration rate compared to most developed countries. The relatively high cost of internet access may limit the increase in internet penetration rate in China. The relatively underdeveloped telecommunications infrastructure and capacity constraints may further impede the development of the internet to the extent that users experience delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. In addition, China has only recently developed the internet as a commercial medium and as a result, our internet marketing business is subject to many uncertainties, which could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Our dealer service delivery model is relatively new in China, and if we cannot attract enough dealers to subscribe to such service, we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth and operating profit. With respect to our dealer customers, the manner in which we deliver our services is relatively new in China. Our EP platform, designed for automobile dealers, is based on a service distribution model through which we deliver a package of software applications over the internet to the subscribers of our EP platform services. Our EP platform was developed in 2012 based on our previous Easypass platform and has grown into an automobile marketing and customer relationship management, or CRM, platform. In 2012 and previous years, our Easypass services were part of our bitauto.com business. Our management renamed it as EP platform services and started to oversee and monitor it as a separate business segment in 2013. Used automobile dealers may list their automobiles in our database and have the option to publish their listings on our taoche.com (formerly ucar.cn) website and our partners through our applications on our taoche.com website, which is focused on used car listings. These products are internet-based and offer a package of software applications that enable our dealer customers to create their own websites, publish automobile pricing and other promotional information and communicate with interested buyers. This differs from the traditional licensing arrangements for software applications. Furthermore, our EP platform and applications on our taoche.com website enable our dealer customers to publish their automobile listing and promotional information simultaneously on our websites and our partners. We may pay a fixed fee to our partners for space on their websites in order to extend the customer reach of our automotive database and content and to attract dealers to subscribe to our EP platform and applications on our taoche.com website. If our service delivery model for dealers cannot gain sufficient market acceptance, we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth and operating profit. Failure to enhance our brand recognition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. We believe the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of internet users in China grows. If we fail to effectively enhance our brand recognition, we may not be able to attract new advertising business to our own websites. Furthermore, for our websites to be successful, we need to attract visitors to our websites on a regular basis by providing automobile and other relevant information. We may need to offer news, reports, reviews and specifications on substantially all automobile models available in China even though the manufacturers of some automobiles do not use any of our internet marketing services. If such free offerings fail to attract enough visitors to our websites or automakers and dealers to use our services, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to pay for these offerings, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We also need to continue to enhance our brand awareness among automobile dealers and automakers in order to build on our position as a leading automobile internet marketing service provider. While we have a large network of dealer customers and can reach a broad consumer base by partnering with other portals, listings by our dealer customers are placed on our partners in addition to our own websites. Our partners that distribute dealers’ listing information may not always quote our names on their websites, and as a result, we may not achieve the expected visibility among internet users. This could increase our reliance on our partners. We have taken steps to enhance our brand recognition and gradually establish our identity independent of our partners by expending significant time and resources, including participating in trade shows and other branding events. In June 2011, we entered an agreement with Baidu, Inc., the leading Chinese language internet search provider, to be the exclusive supplier of auto-related content for Aladdin, Baidu’s open data platform. We have renewed our agreement with Baidu, Inc., in June 2012 and 2013. The current agreement has a term of 11 months starting from August 1, 2013. We provide selected auto-related content such as auto listings, pictures, reviews, and dealer information to enhance Baidu’s Aladdin-enabled search research results, which display real-time, dynamic and interactive content alongside static search results. When Baidu users search for auto-related information, Baidu exclusively displays relevant content provided by us in the Aladdin-enabled section of the search results page. In addition, we work with Qihoo 360, a leading internet platform company in China, to market and promote our services. Our branding efforts have had a positive impact on our brand awareness. While we plan to continue to enhance our brand recognition, we may not always be able to achieve our expected results or do so in a short period of time. If this happens, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents A limited number of automakers have contributed to a significant portion of our revenues, and if we are unable to maintain these key relationships or establish new relationships with additional automakers, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In the past, a limited number of automakers have contributed a significant portion of our revenues, primarily in the form of service fees for our digital marketing solutions and advertising fees for advertisement placements on our bitauto.com and taoche.com websites. Revenue concentration is primarily a factor for our digital marketing solutions business due to the relatively small number of automaker customers for this business and the large amounts of their contracts with us. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, revenues from the top three customers in each period accounted for approximately 18.1%, 13.9% and 12.2% respectively, of our total revenues. No single customer contributed more than 5% of our total revenues in 2013. In addition, we generate revenue indirectly from these top customers in the form of performance-based rebates. When we place advertisements on behalf of our automaker customers, we typically receive performance-based rebates from third-party media vendors calculated as a percentage of qualifying payments for the advertising space purchased and utilized by our automaker customers. See “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—We may not be able to continue to collect performance-based rebates for the advertisements we place on other websites, which is an important source of revenues for us.” There is no assurance that our relationships with any of our existing automaker customers will continue in the future, or we could receive any minimum level of revenues from them. If we lose one or more of our important automaker customers, or if they materially reduce their purchase of our services, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to collect performance-based rebates for the advertisements we place on third-party websites, which is an important source of revenues for us. An important part of our digital marketing solutions business is to place advertisements on third-party websites on behalf of our automaker customers. Such media vendor websites often offer incentives in the form of performance-based rebates equal to a percentage of qualifying payments for advertising space purchased and utilized by our customers. Performance-based rebates are an important source of our revenues. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, income from performance-based rebates accounted for 11.6%, 6.6% and 5.5%, respectively, of our total revenues. Nonetheless, our ability to collect rebates from a media vendor website is contingent upon the total value of advertisements we place on such websites during a set time period and whether such value reaches the pre-determined thresholds. If we fail to reach the set threshold, we may not be able to continue to collect performance-based rebates at our expected levels, if at all. Under some media contracts for some customers, if we fail to reach the set minimum, we would lose not only part or all of the rebates, but also our performance security deposit. Some websites, in particular those with a large visitor base, may set the thresholds high or raise them from time to time and we may not be able to negotiate the rebate percentages or the threshold levels. Furthermore, media vendor websites may reduce the percentage of rebates or may not offer them at all. Our income from performance-based rebates may decrease or disappear, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy to grow our used automobile-related business through our taoche.com business may not succeed. One of our growth strategies is to continue investing in our used automobile business through our taoche.com website, which is currently a relatively small portion of our operations and for which we incurred a gross loss of RMB9.5 million, RMB16.9 million and RMB11.2 million (US$1.9 million) in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The increase in gross loss from the taoche.com business from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to decreases in revenues. In the past few years, automobile purchases by general consumers have experienced rapid growth in China. Automobiles are becoming more affordable to a broader group of consumers at different income levels. Many people in China have purchased or plan to purchase cars for the first time. We believe a market for used automobiles will gradually develop as the number of consumer-owned automobiles increases. However, the development of a used automobile market in China is subject to a high level of uncertainty and we cannot predict how the market will develop, if at all, in the future. Even if a used automobile market does develop, we cannot predict whether there will be a similar market on the internet and whether our taoche.com website will be poised to capture any of the growth. Our investment in the used automobile business may not prove profitable if the online market for used automobile information fails to develop or develops at a slower rate than expected, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to execute our mobile strategy. There is an increasing trend of accessing the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices. We have developed a few mobile applications and plan to devote more resources to develop more applications for various mobile devices. Our mobile applications have over 15 million downloads and activations in 2013. However, we have limited experience in developing and optimizing versions of applications for users on mobile devices and platforms. Currently, only a small portion of our automakers and dealers use our mobile applications. As we begin to devote significant resources to developing mobile applications, we will face significant competition from established companies that may have far greater experience than we do. We expect existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications and new mobile-applications competitors to enter the market. Our limited experience makes it difficult to predict whether we will succeed in developing mobile applications that appeal to automakers and dealers. In addition, our experience in developing browser-based applications may not be relevant to developing mobile applications, and we have limited experience working with wireless carriers, mobile platform providers and other partners. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to predict whether we will succeed in developing commercially viable mobile applications. In addition, the generally lower processing speed, power, functionality and memory associated with mobile devices make using applications through such devices more difficult; and the versions of our applications developed for these devices may not be appealing to users. In addition, each device manufacturer or platform provider may impose unique or restrictive terms and conditions for developers relying on such devices or platforms, and our applications may not work well or be used on these devices as a result. As new devices, new mobile platforms and updates to platforms are continually being released, we may encounter problems in developing our applications for use on these devices and platforms and we may need to devote significant resources to creating, supporting and maintaining our applications on such devices and platforms. If we are unable to successfully expand into mobile platforms and devices, or if the versions of our applications that we create for such platforms and devices are not appealing to our users, our business and growth prospects, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. We are facing increased competition, and if we cannot compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Our bitauto.com advertising business and EP platform business faces competition from many market participants. With respect to our new automobile advertising services, we face competition from China’s automotive vertical websites, such as pcauto.com.cn and autohome.com.cn, as well as the automotive channels of major portals, online video websites, social media, social network and traditional forms of media. Although we believe the rapid increase in China’s online population will draw more attention away from traditional forms of media, such as radio, television, newspapers, and magazines, we still compete with them for clients and advertising revenues. Competition with portals and automotive vertical websites is primarily centered on website traffic and brand recognition among general internet users, spending by automakers and automobile dealers, and customer retention and acquisition. In addition, because the entry barrier for the internet advertising business is relatively low, new competitors, such as social networking websites and internet video websites, may be able to launch competitive services at relatively low costs and may acquire market share in a relatively short period of time. This is especially true for portal websites. Some competitors of our automobile advertising services have greater financial and other resources than we do and may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share. With respect to our EP platform business, we face competition from autohome.com.cn and pcauto.com.cn in terms of automobile inventory, timeliness and accuracy of automobile pricing information and website traffic. We believe our large dealer customer base and innovative EP platform have put us at an advantageous position over our competitors, but we cannot assure you whether we would be able to maintain such competitive advantages in the future. Our used automobile business, currently operated through our taoche.com website, faces competitions from other used automobile websites as well as other portals and media that publish used automobile information. The parameters of competition are similar to those of our bitauto.com advertising business and EP platform, except that the competition for our taoche.com business is more focused on used automobile inventory and market penetration among dealers. Furthermore, the used automobile market is still in an early stage of development and we expect more competitors will join the market in the future. For our digital marketing solutions business, we compete with other internet marketing service providers in China. We face competition from the digital marketing business of well-established international advertising agencies as well as local agencies that specialize in providing online marketing services. Most of these competitors do not focus only on the automotive industry, but also provide online marketing services to clients in other industries and may have greater resources and established reputation. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. In the automotive industry, we not only compete for customers, but also compete in terms of advertisement design, relationships with third-party media vendors, the quality, breadth, prices and effectiveness of services. Competition could affect our market share, pricing, and cost structure. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively with our existing competitors, maintain our current fee arrangements, or compete effectively with new competitors in the future. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively and successfully at reasonable costs against our existing and future competitors in any of our business segments, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain good cooperative relationships with our partners on reasonable terms, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. To broaden the consumer reach of our automotive database and content, we place listings by our dealer customers not only on our automotive vertical websites, bitauto.com and taoche.com, but also on approximately 600 partners as of December 31, 2013, including Tencent, Netease and Qihoo 360. Depending on the arrangement, we may pay a fixed fee to some partners for their advertising resources. Our partners may change the terms of cooperation, including raising prices, which would increase our operating expenses and eventually force us to end our relationships with them if the terms become commercially unreasonable. In addition, some of our partners may choose to partner with our competitors or decide to develop an automobile listing and dealer information database by themselves. If we are unable to partner with all or most of major portals on reasonable terms, we may experience a reduction in the number of dealers using our services, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Although we do not rely on any one partner website for our dealer service business, material adverse changes to our relationships, and our contract terms, with many of them may have a material adverse impact on our dealer service business model. We rely on China’s automotive industry for substantially all our revenues and future growth, but the automotive industry is still at an early stage of development and subject to many uncertainties. We rely on China’s automotive industry for substantially all our revenues, which we generate from providing internet marketing services to automakers and automobile dealers. We have greatly benefited from the rapid growth of China’s automotive industry during the past few years. However, China’s automotive industry is still at an early stage of development and remains subject to many uncertainties. We cannot predict how this industry will develop in the future. Further, the growth of China’s automotive industry could be affected by many factors, including: • general economic conditions in China and around the world; • the growth of disposable household income and the availability and cost of credit available to finance automobile purchases; • taxes and other incentives or disincentives related to automobile purchases and ownership; • environmental concerns and measures taken to address these concerns; • the cost of energy, including gasoline prices, and the cost of automobile licensing and registration fees; • the improvement of the highway system and availability of parking facilities; and • other government policies relating to the automotive industry in China, including the phasing out of government subsidies to promote automobile sales and policies limiting automobile purchases in some cities. Any adverse change to these factors could reduce demand for automobiles, which, in return, would likely reduce demand for our products and services from automakers and dealers. Demand for our products and services is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Automakers and dealers typically cut their marketing expenditures during periods of economic downturn. In addition, purchases of new automobiles are often discretionary for consumers and have been, and may continue to be, affected by negative trends in the economy. Historically, unit sale of automobiles, particularly new automobiles, has been cyclical, fluctuating with general economic cycles. If China’s automotive industry fails to expand or China’s economy stagnates or contracts, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Government policies on automobile purchases and ownership may materially affect our results of operations. Government policies on automobile purchases and ownership may have a material effect on our business due to their influence on consumer behaviors. In early 2009, the PRC government lowered the purchase tax on passenger automobiles with 1.6 liter or smaller engine from 10% to 5% and introduced a trade-in subsidy on used automobiles with lower emission standards ranging from RMB3,000 to RMB6,000, leading to a 46% increase in passenger automobile sales in 2009. The purchase-tax for automobiles with 1.6-liter or smaller engines was adjusted to 7.5% in 2010 but was increased to 10% on January 1, 2011. In the face of concerns about a significant slowdown in automobile sales in 2010, the PRC government announced a plan and implementation rules to provide a subsidy of RMB3,000 per automobile for purchases of certain fuel-efficient automobiles with 1.6-liter or smaller engines listed in the catalogs for fuel-efficient automobiles that the PRC government released from time to time. Furthermore, in September 2013, relevant PRC governmental authorities jointly announced new circular to continue to provide a subsidy of RMB 3,000 per automobile to certain qualified fuel-efficient automobiles. We cannot predict whether government subsidies will remain in the future or whether similar incentives will be introduced, and if they are, their impact on automobile sales in China. It is possible that automobile sales may decline significantly upon expiration of the existing government subsidies if consumers have become used to such incentives and delay purchase decisions in the absence of new incentives. If automobile sales indeed decline, our revenues may fluctuate and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Some local governmental authorities also issued regulations and relevant implementation rules in order to control traffic and reduce the number of automobiles. For example, local Beijing governmental authorities adopted regulations and relevant implementing rules in December 2010 to limit the total number of license plates issued to new automobile purchases in Beijing each year. The implementing rules were amended in December 2011 and November 2012. Local Guangzhou governmental authorities also announced similar regulations, which came into effect in July 2012. There are similar policies that restrict the issuance of new passenger car license plates in Shanghai, Tianjin, Hangzhou and Guiyang. In September 2013, the State Council released a plan for the prevention and remediation of air pollution, which requires large cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, to further restrict the number of motor vehicles. In October 2013, the Beijing government authorities issued an additional regulation to limit the total number of vehicles in Beijing to no more than six million by the end of 2017. Such regulatory developments, as well as other uncertainties, may adversely affect the growth prospects of China’s automotive industry, which in turn may have a material adverse impact on our business due to our reliance on the performance of automakers and automobile dealers. Any financial or economic crisis, or perceived threat of such a crisis, including a significant decrease in consumer confidence, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any actual or perceived threat of a financial crisis in China, in particular a credit and banking crisis, could have an indirect, but material and adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and the global economy has continued to face new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis in 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy since 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will maintain its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including the United States. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil price and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. In addition, tensions in the relationship between China and Japan may adversely affect our advertising revenues from Japanese automakers. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions, as well as changes in domestic economic and political policies and the expected or perceived overall economic growth rate in China. It is impossible to predict how the Chinese economy would develop in the future. Nonetheless, any slowdown in China’s economic development might lead to tighter credit markets, increased market volatility, sudden drops in business and consumer confidence and dramatic changes in business and consumer behaviors. In response to their perceived uncertainty in economic conditions, consumers might delay, reduce or cancel purchases of automobiles, which to some extent are considered as luxury items by many people in China, and our customers may also defer, reduce or cancel purchasing our services. To the extent any fluctuations in the Chinese economy significantly affect automakers’ and dealers’ demand for our services or change their spending habits, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents In addition, an economic downturn may reduce the number of automakers and dealers in China and decrease the demand for our services. We depend on automakers and dealers for business. Continued economic growth in China expanded the network of automakers and dealers, which is the primary source of our customers. Since the early 1990s, many non-automotive enterprises joined China’s automotive industry and started offering new lines of automobiles. An increasing number of foreign brands gradually entered the PRC market primarily by forming joint ventures with Chinese brands. Growing automobile production capacity and production volume have significantly increased the number of dealers. By contrast, negative economic trends could lead to consolidations among automakers and dealers, and in effect shrink our customer base. Production lines might be contracted or shut down. A reduction in the number of automakers and dealers would reduce the number of opportunities we have to sell our products and services. To the extent that the automakers and dealers have used our products or services, consolidations may result in purchase cancellation of those product or service offerings. Any decrease in demand for our products and services could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to pay third-party media vendors in connection with the advertisements we placed with them on behalf of our automaker customers if we fail to collect some or all the payments from these automaker customers. As part of our digital marketing solutions business, we place advertisements on the websites of third-party media vendors on behalf of our automaker customers. We enter into advertising agreements with media vendors only after our customers have confirmed the proposed advertisements in their agency agreements with us. The media vendors are obligated to place the advertisements based on our customers’ specific requirements. We receive net service fees for such advertising services and record a receivable from our customers and a corresponding payable due to the media vendors based on the total amount of advertisements placed. However, we need to pay our media vendors for their advertising resources when payments are due regardless of whether our automaker customers have made payments to us. Our contracts with media vendors generally also allow the media vendors to claim past-due payments of advertising fees directly from our automaker customers. As of December 31, 2013, our trade receivables and our trade payables were RMB656.7 million (US$108.5 million) and RMB232.5 million (US$38.4 million), respectively. Of these receivables and payables, RMB150.3 million (US$24.8 million) was related to the receivables from our automaker customers and the corresponding payables due to media vendors in connection with the advertisements we placed with the media vendors on behalf of our automaker customers. Historically, we have not experienced any significant collection issues that required us to provide for bad debts in connection with our receivables from our automaker customers. Under our contracts with media vendors, terms of our trade payables due to media vendors generally correspond to, or are longer than, the terms of our receivables due from our automaker customers. However, we cannot assure you that our automaker customers will continue to make timely and full payments to us for the advertisements we placed on their behalves. If we fail to collect all or part of such payments from our automaker customers, we may continue to be held liable to pay the media vendors the full amount of our payables when they become due. In addition, we may incur penalty for late payments. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our customers may not renew their contracts for our services and we may not be able to sell additional or enhanced services to our existing customers. Our customers, including automakers and dealers, may not renew their contracts or subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their terms. They may also renew for shorter contract terms or for lower cost editions of our services. Although the renewal rates for our automobile dealer subscription services were approximately 88% in 2013, our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our services, customers’ ability to maintain their operations and spending levels, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their contracts or subscriptions for our services or switch to lower cost editions at the time of renewal, our revenues could decline and our business may suffer. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional services or enhanced editions of our services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions. If our efforts to sell new or enhanced services to our customers are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operation may suffer. 11 Table of Contents Problems with China’s internet infrastructure or with our third-party data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Our internet businesses heavily depend on the performance and reliability of China’s internet infrastructure, the continual accessibility of bandwidth and servers to our service providers’ networks, and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. Our EP platform and applications on our taoche.com website use the internet to deliver services to our dealer customers, who access our software applications on the internet. Distribution of dealer listing information is also accomplished through the internet. Because we do not license our software to our customers, our customers depend on the internet to access our services. In addition, we depend on the internet to effectively publish our customers’ advertisements on our websites, which must be properly running and accessible to all visitors at all times. We rely on major Chinese telecommunication companies to provide us with bandwidth for our services, and we may not have any access to comparable alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems. Our content distribution networks, located in several regions throughout China, may also be shut down or otherwise experience interruptions in a particular region. Internet access may not be available in certain areas due to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or local government decisions. If we experience technical problems in delivering our services over the internet either at national or regional level, we could experience reduced demand for our services, lower revenues and increased costs. Our main servers are located in the internet data centers of third parties in Beijing. We do not control the operation of these third-party data center hosting facilities, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We regularly back up our data on servers in different locations or on tapes stored in our offices. Even with disaster recovery arrangements, our services could still be interrupted. We have not experienced any system failures in 2013. Such interruptions would reduce our revenues, require us to provide the services again, make refunds or pay penalties, shrink our customer base and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Our business could also be materially and adversely affected if our current and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Any breaches to our security measures, including unauthorized access, computer viruses and “hacking,” may adversely affect our database and reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Breaches to our security measures, including computer viruses and hacking, may result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and database, disruptions to our business activities, inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our websites, and other material adverse effects on our operations. In particular, security breaches to our database could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our EP platform and applications on our taoche.com website not only allow our customers to edit and publish listing information, but also store and transmit such listings and keep track of data on historical marketing activities. This information is proprietary and confidential. Security breaches could expose us to risks of loss of this information and possible liability. We require user names and passwords to access this data and the accounts of our customers. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data or at any time, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our or our customers’ data. Our customers may not have effective security measures and may share their user names and passwords with a group larger than necessary. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access to ours or our customer’s data is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services altogether and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and “hacking.” Moreover, if a computer virus or “hacking” affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and use of our services may decrease. We may not be able to successfully expand our service network into other geographical markets in China. As of December 31, 2013, we had sales and service representatives located in 140 cities across China and plan to expand our operations to more cities. Geographical expansion is particularly important for us to acquire more dealer customers, whose operations are invariably localized and spread out in every region. Our consumer-facing websites need localized content that are relevant to our website visitors in a specific region. Nonetheless, expanding into new geographical markets imposes additional burdens on our sales, marketing and general managerial resources. As China is a large and diverse market, business practices and demands may vary significantly by region and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China. If we are unable to manage our expansion efforts effectively, if our expansion efforts take longer than planned or if our costs for these efforts exceed our expectations, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be further harmed if we fail to develop and introduce new products and services. Continued increases in our advertising revenues from our new and used automobile websites depend on our ability to attract consumers to our websites and monetize that traffic at profitable margins with advertisers. If our websites do not provide a compelling, differentiated user experience, we may lose visitors to competing sites. Further, if traffic to our websites declines, we may lose some of our advertising customers who may reduce or eliminate their advertising purchases through us. Our competitors may introduce new alternative products that are more sophisticated and cost-effective than ours. In addition, both our dealer services and digital marketing solutions businesses rely on continued product and service innovations to retain existing, and attract new, customers. Our dealer customers may not continue to subscribe to our online listing services if we do not timely enhance their user experience and broaden our product and service offerings. Similarly, our digital marketing solutions business may gradually lose its competitive advantage if we are slower in technological innovations or in announcing either new or enhanced products and services. To increase our brand recognition and stay competitive, we need to continue to develop new products and services for visitors to our websites and our automaker and dealer customers. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance and generate incremental revenues. Moreover, actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of its new products or services. If our new products and services are not well received, we may not only lose money, but also harm our reputation, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and unexpected interruptions, which make it difficult to accurately predict our future operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Historically, our revenues tend to be lower in the first half and higher in the second half of each year. Advertising and promotional activities often increase in the second half of each year. New automobile models tend to be introduced in the last quarter, which usually leads to increases in advertising spending by automakers. Furthermore, some of our customers whose fiscal year ends with the calendar year often choose to take advantage of the last opportunities to increase their annual revenues before the year ends. In comparison, activity levels tend to decrease after the fourth quarter’s spending. Our customers and automobile consumers may not yet have a set plan for the new fiscal year. Further, the holiday period following the Chinese New Year is usually in the first quarter, which may contribute to the lower activity levels in the first half of each year. Therefore, the seasonality of the automobile retail business and the resulting spending pattern of automakers and dealers may result in greater emphasis on the importance of our fourth quarter results. Nonetheless, if conditions arise in the second half of a year that depress or affect automobile sales and marketing spending by our customers, such as depressed economic conditions or similar situations, our revenues for the year may be disproportionately and adversely affected. As a result of these factors, our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter and our quarterly results may not be comparable to the corresponding periods of prior years. Our actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results. Therefore, you may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and cause the price of our ADSs to fall. As our revenues grow, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. Our principal shareholders, directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our shares, allowing them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval, which may reduce the price of our ADSs and deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs. As of the latest practicable date, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 45.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and principal shareholders have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholders’ approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction, and their interests may not align with your interests as our ADSs holders. These shareholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit you and our other shareholders. Corporate actions may be taken even if they are opposed by you and our other shareholders. This could deprive you and our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company. In addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 13 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by the potential conflicts of interest caused by our dual roles as both a supplier and a purchaser of advertisement resources. As an internet content provider, we supply advertisement space; as an advertising agent, we purchase advertisement space on behalf of our customers; as an automobile listing platform, we also purchase advertisement space and include it in our dealer subscription service package. Conflict of interests may arise between our roles as a purchaser and as a supplier of advertisement resources. As a supplier, we have incentives to place more advertisements on our own websites. Such conflicts could harm our reputation as an independent purchasing agent for our customers and our reputation as a supplier of advertisement resources. In order to minimize conflicts, there are no rebate arrangements to our digital marketing solutions business when we place advertisements on our own websites. While we have and will continue to follow our customers’ instruction and maximize their interests, we do not know how the market will respond to our multi-functional roles in the future. Our customers have directed, and will continue directing, us to place their advertisements on websites of their choice, including websites in direct competition with ours, or our customers may choose not to advertise on our websites at all. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If automakers are subject to product recalls, our business could suffer and our revenues may decrease. Automakers are periodically subject to product recalls. These product recalls interrupted the normal business operation of automakers, its joint ventures and its dealers in China. From time to time, our customers experience product recalls, the scale of which varies from customer to customer. It is difficult to determine the impact product recalls might have on our business and revenues, but we expect that our revenues may decrease if Chinese consumers stop or reduce purchasing automobiles made by the recalling automakers or automakers and their dealers suspend or decrease using our services. If any of our customers experience product recalls in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to liability for placing advertisements with content that is deemed inappropriate or misleading. PRC laws and regulations prohibit advertising companies from producing, distributing or publishing any advertisement with content that violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of the PRC, involves designs of the PRC national flag, national emblem or national anthem or the music of the national anthem, is considered reactionary, obscene, superstitious or absurd, is fraudulent, or disparages similar products. Some of our customers choose to produce their advertisements by themselves and we simply place them on our websites. While we do have a review procedure prior to publishing, we cannot guarantee that we can entirely eliminate such advertisements. If we are deemed to be in violation of such PRC regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including suspension of publishing, confiscation of the revenues related to these advertisements, levying of fines and suspension or revocation of our business license or advertising license, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we may be subject to claims by consumers misled by information on our websites or other portals powered by our database. We may not to be able to recover our losses from advertisers by enforcing the indemnification provisions in the contracts. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to ensure the accuracy of dealer pricing and listing information. We rely on our dealer customers to timely and accurately update their automobile information, prices, sales and promotions. The popularity of our automobile listings posted by dealers, in particular pricing information of automobiles, is premised on the accuracy, comprehensiveness and reliability of the data. If the information listed by our dealer customers is frequently misleading or exaggerated, we may gradually lose our appeal for our visitors. Our reputation could be harmed and we could experience reduced traffic to our websites, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 14 Table of Contents Failure to protect our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Our efforts in protecting our brand and intellectual property rights may not always be effective. We regularly file applications to register our trademarks in China, but may not be able to register such marks, or register them within the category we seek. As of March 31, 2014, our “ ” and “ ” trademark was registered under the categories necessary to conduct our business. Similar trademarks could cause confusion among consumers or divert business opportunities from us, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk in doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Further, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. As the right to use internet domain names is not rigorously regulated in China, other companies may have incorporated in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to our trademarks and domain names. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we could not adequately protect our content, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites. China has enacted laws and regulations governing internet access and the distribution of information through the internet. The PRC government prohibits information that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China or the public interest, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory, from being distributed through the internet. PRC laws also prohibit the use of the internet in ways which, among other things, result in a leakage of state secrets or the distribution of socially destabilizing content. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses, the closure of the concerned websites and reputational harm. A website operator may also be held liable for censored information displayed on or linked to its website. We may be subject to potential liability for certain unlawful actions of our customers and subscribers or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. We may be required to delete content that violates PRC laws and report content that we suspect may violate PRC laws, which may reduce our customer base or the purchases of our services. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our business or offering other services in China. Copyright infringement and other intellectual property claims against us may adversely affect our business. We have collected and compiled on our websites, automobile-related news and reports, automobile pictures and specifications, maps, consumer reviews, and other documents and information prepared by third parties. Because some content on our websites is collected from various sources, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition, copyright or trademark infringement, or claims based on other theories. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is displayed on our websites or accessible from our websites through links to other websites or information on our websites supplied by third parties. Any lawsuits or threatened lawsuits, in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating our business. Any judgments against us in such suits, or related settlements, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be based upon commercially reasonable terms, or we may be unable to enter into such agreements at all. As a result, the scope of our database we offer to the consumers could be reduced, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. 15 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our senior management team and key personnel and the loss of any of their services could severely disrupt our business. Our future success is highly dependent on the ongoing efforts of our senior management and key personnel. We rely on our management team for their extensive knowledge of and experience in China’s automotive and internet industries as well as their deep understanding of the Chinese automobile market, business environment and regulatory regime. We do not carry, and do not intend to procure, key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key personnel, Mr. Bin Li in particular, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain senior executives or key personnel in the future. If we fail to retain our senior management, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any members of our senior management or any of our key personnel join a competitor or form a competing company, we may not be able to replace them easily and we may lose customers, business partners and key staff members. Each of our senior executives and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. In the event of a dispute between any of our senior executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you as to the extent, if any, that these provisions may be enforceable in the PRC due to uncertainties involving the PRC legal system. We may not be able to attract and retain highly skilled employees, provide necessary training or maintain good relationships with our employees. Our business is supported and enhanced by a team of highly skilled employees who are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified employees, in particular sales executives and engineers with high levels of experience in creative design, software development and internet-related services. Competition for these employees is intense. There may be a limited supply of qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. In order to attract prospective, and retain current, employees, we may have to increase our employee compensation by a larger scale and at a faster pace than we expect, which would increase our operating expenses. In addition, we must hire and train qualified employees in a timely manner to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may deteriorate in one or more of the markets where we operate, which may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. Finally, we may run into disputes with our employees from time to time and if we are not able to properly handle our relationship with our employees, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and future growth. We have experienced rapid growth in the past few years. Our revenues have increased from RMB293.3 million in 2009 to RMB1.4 billion (US$237.8 million) in 2013. Our sales and service representative network has expanded to 140 cities as of December 31, 2013. We intend to continue to expand our operations. However, we may not be able to sustain a similar growth rate in revenues or geographic coverage in future periods due to a number of factors, including the greater difficulty of growing at sustained rates from a larger revenue base. In addition, our expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. As our operations expand into more cities throughout China, we will face increasing challenges in managing a large and geographically dispersed group of employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new operations into our current business plan. As a result, our reputation, business and operations may suffer. Accordingly, you should not rely on our historical growth rate as an indication of our future performance. 16 Table of Contents Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began operations in 2000 and did not begin to grow significantly until 2005. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We expect to continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: • implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; • increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; • manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; and • anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the China’s automotive and internet marketing industries as well as the impact of any changes in government regulations, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are susceptible to risks related to cash flow management. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, short-term cash flow management problems from time to time. For example, some of our advertising services are not paid until after our services are fully performed. Some automakers may designate their advertising agencies to place their advertisements on our websites and subsequently pay us. Such advertising agencies may delay making payments to us, leading to longer aging cycles of our account receivables. Our cash flow from operations might not be sufficient to cover our account payables and we may incur penalty payments if we cannot pay third-party vendors on time. We may need to expend more resources in payment collections. This could negatively affect our results of operations in certain quarters and make it impossible to predict our future operating results. Our third-party vendors may raise prices and as a result increase our operating expenses. We rely on third parties for certain essential services, such as internet services and server custody, and we may not have any control over the costs of the services they provide. Any third-party service provider may raise their prices, which might not be commercially reasonable to us. If we are forced to seek other providers, there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide comparable high-quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay third-party vendors for services rise significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Acquisitions, strategic alliances and investments could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and lower our operating results and the value of your investment. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies, and we expect that periodically we will continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. For example, in 2011, we acquired 100% equity interest in Beijing Bitcar Interactive Information Technology Company Limited, or Bitcar, a provider of mobile internet digital enabled sales assistant tools for the automotive industry in China. In 2012, we invested in minority equity interests in Car King Holding Ltd., a leading used car hypermarket based in Shanghai, and Target Net (Beijing) Technology Company, an internet information agency in China. In 2013, we entered into a framework agreement to establish a joint venture with Kelley Blue Book, www.kbb.com, (“KBB”), a leading provider of new and used car information in the United States, and the China Automobile Dealers Association (“CADA”), a national organization representing automobile dealers in China. In 2013, we invested in Shanghai Eclicks Network Co., Ltd., a company involved in the development of mobile applications. In April 2014, we entered into a cooperation agreement with Pang Da Automobile Trade Co., Ltd. and Youxin Internet (Beijing) Information Technology Co., Ltd. to form a joint venture, which is intended to develop the used car auction business and provide used car listing inventory for our taoche.com business. 17 Table of Contents Acquisitions, alliances and investments involve numerous risks, including: • the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; • difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • potential write-offs of acquired assets or investments; and • downward effect on our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our ADSs. Further, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed and the value of your investment may decline. Furthermore, we may fail to identify or secure suitable acquisition and business partnership opportunities or our competitors may capitalize on such opportunities before we do, which could impair our ability to compete with our competitors and adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. Any catastrophe, including outbreaks of health pandemics and other extraordinary events, could severely disrupt our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of catastrophes, including earthquakes, fire, floods, hail, windstorms, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures, explosions, man-made events such as terrorist attacks, and similar events. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes. If any such catastrophe or extraordinary event were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers and could decrease demand for our services. Although we are headquartered in Beijing, as of December 31, 2013, our sales and service representatives network covered 140 cities throughout China, exposing us to potential catastrophes of all types in a broad geographic area in China. Because our property insurance only covers property damages caused by a limited number of numerated natural disasters and accidents and significant time could be required to resume our operations, our financial position and operating results could be materially and adversely affected in the event of any major catastrophic event. In addition, our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1), commonly referred to as “swine flu,” avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other pandemics. In March 2013, a new virus subtype H7N9, commonly known as “bird flu” or “avian flu,” was discovered in eastern China and has already sickened and killed some people. It is unclear how this virus will spread, which makes it difficult to predict its potential impact. Any occurrence of these pandemic diseases or other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our staffing and otherwise reduce the activity levels of our work force, causing a material and adverse effect on our business operations. We do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and are, to our knowledge, not well-developed in the field of business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for property insurance and automobile insurance, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. 18 Table of Contents The outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) authorizes the SEC to deny any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC if found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated any such laws or rules and regulations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning four of these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The sanction will not take effect until there is an order of effectiveness issued by the SEC. The four firms which are subject to the six months suspension from practicing before the SEC have recently appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. The PRC-based accounting firms involved can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s review nor that of any subsequent appeal process, if the accounting firms involved, including our independent registered public accounting firm, were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm which can audit and issue a report on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delay or abandonment of this offering, or, after the completion of this offering, delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and consequently, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in this annual report, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and with applicable professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, and such deficiencies may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures, and to the extent that such inspections might have facilitated improvements in our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures, investors may be deprived of such benefits. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our businesses in China do not comply with applicable PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in internet content and marketing services, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. PRC law currently limits foreign ownership of companies that provide internet content services in China up to 50%. Foreign and wholly foreign-owned enterprises are currently restricted from providing other internet information services, such as internet advertising. Also, PRC laws and regulations do not allow foreign entities with less than at least two years of direct experience operating an advertising business outside of China to invest in an advertising business in China excluding Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. Because we have no direct experience operating an advertising business outside of China, we may not invest directly in a PRC entity that provides advertising services in China. We are a Cayman Islands company and a foreign legal person under PRC law. Accordingly, neither we nor our wholly foreign-invested PRC subsidiary, Beijing Bitauto Internet Information Company Limited, or BBII, is currently eligible to apply for the required licenses for providing internet content services or advertising services in China excluding Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. As such, we conduct our business through contractual arrangements with our structured entities in China, that is, our internet content business through BBIT, and our internet advertising business through CIG, and subsidiaries of BBIT and CIG. Each of the structured entities is currently owned by individual shareholders who are PRC citizens and holds the requisite licenses or permits to provide internet content or advertising services in China. Their shareholders are set forth in “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” BBIT holds licenses and permits required to operate our internet content business. Our structured entities entered into a series of contractual arrangements with BBII but directly operate our businesses in China. We have been and are expected to continue to depend on structured entities to operate our businesses. We do not have any equity ownership interest in any of the structured entities but control their operations and receive the economic benefits through a series of contractual arrangements. For more information regarding these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with our PRC Structured Entities and Their Shareholders.” Furthermore, on July 26, 2006, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, released the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Operating Value-added Telecommunications Business, or the MIIT Notice, which reiterates certain provisions under China’s Administrative Rules on Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises. Among other things, the MIIT Notice prohibits domestic telecommunications license holders from (i) renting, transferring or selling telecommunications licenses to any foreign investors in any form and (ii) from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Under the MIIT Notice, holders of valued-added telecommunications business operating licenses, or their shareholders, must directly own the domain names and registered trademarks used by such license holders in their daily operations. BBIT’s internet information services are considered value-added telecommunication services set forth in the MIIT Notice and BBIT owns a Telecommunication and Information Service Business Operating License, or ICP license, for its provision of internet information service and all the trademarks used for its internet information services on its websites. Since there is currently no official interpretation or implementation practice under the MIIT Notice, it remains uncertain how the MIIT Notice will be enforced and whether or to what extent the MIIT Notice may affect the legality of the corporate structures and contractual arrangements adopted by foreign-invested internet companies that operate in China. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of our contractual arrangements with structured entities. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that each of such contractual agreements for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with the structured entities), except as otherwise disclosed in this report, complies with all applicable existing PRC laws, rules and regulations, and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not adopt any new regulation to restrict or prohibit foreign investment in advertising business and value-added telecommunications business through contractual arrangement in the future, or will not determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. 20 Table of Contents If we, any of the structured entities or any of their current or future subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, which regulates advertising companies, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which regulates internet information services companies, and the CSRC, which regulates listed companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of such entities; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiary’s and structured entities’ operations; • imposing fines, confiscating the income of the structured entities or our income, or imposing other requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiary and structured entities may not be able to comply; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiary and structured entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and structured entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our public offering to finance our business and operations in China; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our structured entities in China, and their shareholders, for our business operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control or enabling us to derive economic benefits as through ownership of controlling equity interest. We rely on and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our structured entities in China and their respective shareholders to operate our internet content and advertising services business. Our structured entities contributed RMB613.7 million, RMB995.2 million and RMB1.4 billion (US$232.1 million), representing 91.6%, 94.2% and 97.6% respectively, of our total revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013. BBII follows the commonly used methodology, which is to charge service fees based on each structured entity’s revenues reduced by its turnover taxes, such as business taxes, value-added taxes and other surcharges, cost of revenues, operating expenses and an appropriate amount of retained profit that is determined pursuant to tax planning strategies and relevant tax laws. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel that, except as otherwise disclosed in this form, each of the contractual arrangements with our structured entities are valid under current PRC laws, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over the structured entities as ownership of controlling equity interests would be in providing us with control over, or enabling us to derive economic benefits from the operations of, the structured entities. If we had direct ownership of the structured entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to (i) effect changes in the board of directors of those entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level, and (ii) derive economic benefits from the operations of the structured entities by causing them to declare and pay dividends. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any of the structured entities or any of their shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies available under PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. For example, if shareholders of a structured entity were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in such structured entity to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to take a legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. If (i) the applicable PRC authorities invalidate these contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, (ii) any structured entity or its shareholders terminate the contractual arrangements or (iii) any structured entity or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, our business operations in China would be materially and adversely affected, and the value of your ADSs would substantially decrease. Further, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration, we would not be able to continue our business operations unless the then-current PRC law allows us to directly operate internet content and advertising businesses in China. 21 Table of Contents In addition, if any structured entity or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. If any of the structured entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of your ADSs. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entities and we may be precluded from operating our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Based on the advice of Han Kun Law Offices, our PRC counsel, the corporate structure of our structured entities and our subsidiary in the PRC are in compliance with all existing PRC laws and regulations. However, as advised by our PRC counsel, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations, and the PRC government may in the future take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC counsel. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements which established our corporate structure for operating our business in China are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. Our ability to enforce the share pledge agreements between us and the structured entities’ shareholders may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Pursuant to the share pledge agreements, the shareholders of structured entities agreed to pledge all of their equity interests in structured entities to BBII to secure structured entities’ performance of their obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. The share pledge as contemplated under the share pledge agreements by and among BBII, each of BBIT, BEAM and CIG and each of their respective shareholders have been registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC. The share pledge agreements provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute security for all of the payment obligations of the structured entities under the exclusive business cooperation agreement. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount indicated on the equity pledge registration forms filed with the local branch of SAIC represents the full debt amount that the pledge secures. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in these pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt. Potential conflict may arise out of the loan agreements between the senior management team and a principal shareholder, which may have a material adverse effect on us. In November 2012, AutoTrader Group, Inc. purchased an aggregate of 9,000,000 ordinary shares, or approximately 21.8% of our total outstanding shares at that time, from certain of our pre-IPO shareholders in a private transaction. Concurrently, certain members of our senior management, namely, Mr. Bin Li, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Mr. Jingning Shao, our director and president, Mr. Xuan Zhang, our chief financial officer, and Mr. Weihai Qu, our director and senior vice president purchased an aggregate of 1,000,000 ordinary shares, or approximately 2.4% of our total outstanding shares at that time, from another pre-IPO shareholder. The senior management team funded the purchase through a four-year term loan from AutoTrader Group. The management team has pledged a total of 2,699,080 ordinary shares to AutoTrader Group as collateral for the loans received from AutoTrader Group. We are not a party to the loan agreements between our senior management team and AutoTrader Group. However, if there should be any defaults or disagreements with respect to such loan agreements, conflicts may arise among certain of our senior management team and AutoTrader Group, which may have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents The shareholders of our structured entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Conflicts of interest may arise between the dual roles of those individuals who are both minority shareholders, directors and executive officers of our company and shareholders of our structured entities. Mr. Bin Li, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, and Mr. Weihai Qu, our director and senior vice president, jointly own all the equity interests in BBIT and CIG, with whom we conduct our business through contractual arrangements. For these directors and executive officers, their fiduciary duties toward our company under Cayman law—to act honestly, in good faith and with a view to our best interests—may conflict with their roles in our structured entities, as what is in the best interest of our structured entities may not be in the best interests of our company. In comparison, Mr. Li and Mr. Qu each only hold a minority interest in us. The fiduciary duty implied from their roles as our directors and executive officers is not fully aligned with their interests as shareholders of our structured entities. These individuals may breach or cause the structured entities that they beneficially own to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control the structured entities and receive economic benefits from them. We do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest these individuals may encounter in his capacity as a shareholder of the structured entities, on the one hand, and as a beneficial owner and a director and an officer of our company, on the other hand. We could, at all times, exercise our option under the exclusive option agreement with structured entities’ shareholders to cause them to transfer all of their equity ownership in structured entities to a PRC entity or individual designated by us, and this new shareholder of structured entities could then appoint new directors of structured entities to replace the current directors. In addition, if such conflicts of interest arise, BBII, our wholly owned foreign PRC subsidiary, could also, in the capacity of the attorney-in-fact of structured entities’ shareholders as provided under the irrevocable power of attorney, directly appoint new directors of structured entities to replace the current directors. We rely on structured entities’ shareholders to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts and provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty to our company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains. Although our independent directors or disinterested officers may take measures to prevent the parties with dual roles from making decisions that may favor themselves as shareholders of the structured entities, we cannot assure you that these measures would be effective in all instances and when conflicts arise, these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts will be resolved in our favor. The legal frameworks of China and the Cayman Islands do not provide guidance on resolving conflicts in the event of a conflict with another corporate governance regime. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and those individuals, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which may materially disrupt our business. There is also substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Contractual arrangements with the structured entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in a finding that we and the structured entities owe additional taxes or are ineligible for tax exemption, or both, which could substantially increase our taxes owed and thereby reduce our net income. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between us and our PRC structured entities, we are effectively subject to a 5% PRC business tax or 6% value-added tax, as well as enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on revenues derived from our contractual arrangements with our PRC structured entities. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We are not able to determine whether any of our transactions with our structured entities and their respective shareholders will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm’s-length transactions. The relevant tax authorities may perform investigations to determine whether our contractual relationships with our structured entities and their respective shareholders were entered into on an arm’s-length basis. If any of the transactions we have entered into among our wholly-owned subsidiary in China and any of the structured entities and their respective shareholders are determined by the PRC tax authorities not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or are found to result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, the PRC tax authorities may conduct transfer pricing adjustments and adjust the profits and losses of such structured entities and assess more taxes on it. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment interest and other penalties on such structured entities for underpayment taxes. Our results of operations may be adversely and materially affected if the tax liabilities of any of the structured entities increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment interests or other penalties. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to enterprise income tax, business tax or value-added tax, and other taxes in each province and city in China where we have operations. Our tax structure is subject to review by various local tax authorities. The determination of our provision for income tax and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate decisions by the relevant tax authorities may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 23 Table of Contents We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by BBII, our subsidiary in China, for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If BBII incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements BBII currently has in place with the structured entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the ability of BBII to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Further, relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payments of dividends by BBII only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations of China. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, BBII is also required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. In addition, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends until the cumulative fund reaches 50% of BBII’s registered capital. Therefore, BBII’s ability is limited in terms of transferring a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. If our PRC subsidiary or structured entities become the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy substantially all of our assets, which could reduce the size of our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. As part of the contractual arrangements with BBIT, its shareholders and its subsidiaries, BBIT and its subsidiaries hold operating permits and licenses and substantially all of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. We expect to continue to be dependent on BBIT and its subsidiaries to operate our business in China. If our structured entities go bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our structured entities undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, their equity holders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which would materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Since our business operations are conducted in China, our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. Because our business is closely related to the automotive industry and the internet marketing industry, both of which are highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, our business tends to decline during general economic downturns. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the degree of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, access to financing and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past three decades, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Further, the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy and a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. In addition, other economic measures, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could also materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. 24 Table of Contents The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on our operations. For example, our results of operations and financial position may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Moreover, under current PRC regulations, since December 10, 2005, foreign entities have been allowed to directly own 100% of equity interest of a PRC entity which conducts advertising business if the foreign entity has at least three years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China, or to directly own less than 100% of a PRC advertising business if the foreign entity has at least two years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China. This may encourage foreign advertising companies with more experience, greater technological know-how and more extensive financial resources than we have to compete against us and limit the potential for our growth. However, such restrictions are not implemented in Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. Also see “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Government policies on automobile purchases and ownership may materially affect our results of operations.” We may be required to obtain an internet news releasing service license and be subject to fines and/or suspension of business operations if any of the internet news posted on our websites is deemed to be political in nature, relate to macro-economics, or otherwise would require an internet news releasing service license. In September 2005, the State Council Information Office and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology jointly issued the Provisions for the Administration of Internet News Information Services, or Internet News Provision. Internet news information services shall include the publishing of news via internet, provision of electronic bulletin services on current and political events, and transmission of information on current and political events to the public. Under the Internet News Provision, the internet news service providers shall also include entities that are not established by news press but reproduce internet news from other sources, provide electronic bulletin services on current and political events, and transmit such information to the public. The Information Office of the State Council shall be in charge of the supervision and administration of the internet news information services throughout China. The counterparts of the Information Office of the State Council at the province level shall take charge of the supervision and administration of the internet news information services within their own jurisdiction. As an internet content provider, we release information related to the automotive industry to internet users. In the event that such activities are deemed to be internet news releasing services, we will be required to obtain an internet news releasing service license. However, we and our PRC counsel have consulted the relevant government authorities and have been informed that according to their understanding, the term “news” referred to in the Internet News Provision means macro-economic news of the state, that we would not be required to obtain the internet news releasing license because we only post industry-related news produced by others, for which we clearly indicate the sources of such news on our websites, and we ourselves do not edit or compose such news. However, if any of the internet news posted on our websites is deemed by the government to be political in nature, relate to macro-economics, or otherwise require such license, we would need to apply for such license. If we are deemed to be in breach of the Internet News Provision or other relevant internet news releasing regulations, the PRC regulatory authorities may suspend relevant activities and impose a fine exceeding RMB10,000 but not more than RMB30,000. In serious cases, the PRC regulatory authorities may even suspend the internet service or internet access. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protection available to you and us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and structured entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiary and structured entities established in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. 25 Table of Contents Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. It may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of Chinese administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in China than in more developed legal systems because PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms. Such uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. On October 21, 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public circular, or Circular 75, which became effective on November 1, 2005. Circular 75, together with its subsequent implementation procedures and clarifications, requires PRC residents (including both legal person and natural persons) to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the circular as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. Circular 75 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the offshore special purpose company, such as increase or decrease of capital, equity investment or, including an initial public offering by such company. Prior to our initial public offering in November 2010, all ultimate shareholders of our company at that time who are PRC residents filed or updated their foreign exchange registrations with the Beijing Office of SAFE with respect to their direct or indirect holding of shares in our company. After our initial public offering in December 2010, all of our ultimate shareholders at that time who are PRC residents have amended the foreign exchange registration in accordance with Circular 75 to reflect the change of their shareholding in the company. In connection with the strategic investment by AutoTrader Group, Inc., or AutoTrader Group, in November 2012, certain members of our management purchased an aggregate of 2.4% of our total outstanding shares from a pre-IPO shareholder. In December 2013, we completed a follow-on public offering of 1,264,855 ADSs, each representing one ordinary share, at the public offering price of US$30.00 per ADS. A selling shareholder also offered and sold 1,484,345 ordinary shares. All of the aforesaid management members who are PRC residents are in the process of applying to the Beijing Office of SAFE for foreign exchange registration or amendment of their existing foreign exchange registration in accordance with Circular 75 to reflect the change of their shareholding in the company as result of the aforesaid strategic investment by AutoTrader Group and our follow-on public offering. However, we cannot assure you that all shareholders of our company who are PRC residents will continue to take necessary actions to fully comply with Circular 75. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be informed of identities of all PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company in the future. Failure or inability of such individuals and our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration requirements set forth in Circular 75 may subject these PRC resident shareholders to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiary to distribute dividends to us, make other distributions or otherwise adversely affect our business. Furthermore, as the interpretation and implementation of these foreign exchange regulations has been constantly evolving and may be uncertain under certain circumstances, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations. 26 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. Under the PRC law, Renminbi is freely convertible to foreign currencies with respect to “current account” transactions, but not with respect to “capital account” transactions. We receive all our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiary to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-denominated obligations. Approval or registration from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Dividend payments are current account transactions, which can be made in foreign currencies by complying with certain procedural requirements but do not require prior approval from SAFE. The PRC government may also exercise its discretion to restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi could materially affect our reported results of operations. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. As we may rely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiary and structured entities in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, since the functional currency of our holding company, Bitauto Holdings Limited, is the U.S. dollar while the functional currency of our PRC subsidiary and PRC structured entities is the Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would have a positive or negative effect on our reported financial results, which may not reflect any underlying change in our business, results of operations or financial position. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. Among other things, the M&A Rules and recently issued regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. For example, the M&A Rules require that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. According to the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises issued by the Ministry of Commerce in August 2011, mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in an industry related to national security are subject to strict review by the Ministry of Commerce. These rules also prohibit any transactions attempting to bypass such security review, including by controlling entities through contractual arrangements. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security. However, we cannot preclude the possibility that the Ministry of Commerce or other government agencies may publish interpretations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. Although we have no current plans to make any acquisitions, we may elect to grow our business in the future in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. 27 Table of Contents PRC regulations on loans and direct investments by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC entities. As an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiary, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiary and structured entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. Such loans to our subsidiary or structured entities in China and capital contributions are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to BBII cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local branch. Besides SAFE registration, loans to structured entities may also need government approval. Capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. In addition, the PRC government also restricts the convertibility of foreign currencies into Renminbi and use of the proceeds. On August 29, 2008, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The circular requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC unless otherwise provided by laws and regulations. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the company’s approved business scope. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated Circular 59 on November 19, 2010, requiring the governmental authority to closely examine the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings. In particular, it is specifically required that any net proceed settled from offshore offerings shall be applied in the manner described in the offering documents. On November 16, 2011, SAFE promulgated the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issues Relating to Further Clarification and Regulation of Certain Capital Account Items under Foreign Exchange Control, or Circular 45, to further strengthen and clarify its existing regulations on foreign exchange control under Circular 142. Circular 45 expressly prohibits foreign invested entities, including wholly foreign owned enterprises such as BBII, from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into RMB for the purpose of equity investment, granting entrusted loans and repaying loans between non-financial enterprises. Further, Circular 45 generally prohibits a foreign invested entity from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into RMB for the payment of various types of cash deposits. Violations of Circular 142 or Circular 45 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. If our structured entities require financial support from us or our wholly owned subsidiary in the future and we find it necessary to use foreign currency-denominated capital to provide such financial support, our ability to fund our structured entities’ operations will be subject to statutory limits and restrictions, including those described above. Circular 142, Circular 59 and Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to convert, transfer and use the net proceeds from any offering of additional equity securities in China, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiary or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiary. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to contribute additional capital to fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 28 Table of Contents Dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax, which could materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay our shareholders or ADS holders. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, classifies enterprises as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. The EIT Law provides that an income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-resident investors, which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The State Council of the PRC reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations of the EIT Law. Further, pursuant to the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement between Hong Kong and Mainland China and the Notice on Certain Issues with Respect to the Enforcement of Dividend Provisions in Tax Treaties issued on February 20, 2009 by the State Administration of Taxation, if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns more than 25% of the equity interest in a company in China at all times during the 12-month period immediately prior to obtaining a dividend from such company, the 10% withholding tax on dividends is reduced to 5% provided certain other conditions and requirements under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement between Hong Kong and Mainland China and other applicable PRC laws are satisfied at the discretion of relevant PRC tax authority. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and we have a wholly owned subsidiary in Hong Kong which in turn holds 100% of the equity interest of BBII, a subsidy located in the PRC. Substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from BBII. If we and our Hong Kong subsidiary are considered as non-resident enterprises and our Hong Kong subsidiary is considered as a Hong Kong resident enterprise under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement and is determined by the competent PRC tax authority to have satisfied relevant conditions and requirements, then the dividends paid to our Hong Kong subsidiary by BBII may be subject to the reduced income tax rate of 5% under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement. However, based on the Notice on Certain Issues with Respect to the Enforcement of Dividend Provisions in Tax Treaties, if the relevant PRC tax authorities determine, in their discretion, that a company benefits from such reduced income tax rate due to a structure or arrangement that is primarily tax-driven, such PRC tax authorities may adjust the preferential tax treatment; and based on the Notice on the Comprehension and Recognition of Beneficial Owner in Tax Treaties issued on October 27, 2009 by the State Administration of Taxation, conduit companies, which are established for the purpose of evading or reducing tax, transferring or accumulating profits, shall not be recognized as beneficial owner and thus are not entitled to the abovementioned reduced income tax rate of 5% under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiary in China, or if our Hong Kong subsidiary is determined by PRC government authority as receiving benefits from reduced income tax rate due to a structure or arrangement that is primarily tax-driven, it would materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management body” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued a circular, or SAT Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China. In addition, a bulletin issued by the SAT issued on July 27, 2011, which became effective September 1, 2011, provided more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. This bulletin clarifies matters including resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. Although the SAT Circular 82 and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in the SAT Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” text should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations; in our case, this would mean that income such as interest on our public offering proceeds and other income sourced from outside the PRC would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, the EIT Law provides that dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. It is unclear whether the dividends we receive from BBII will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and would therefore qualify for tax exemption, because the definition of qualified resident enterprises is unclear and the relevant PRC government authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Third, dividends payable by us to our non-PRC resident enterprise investors and gains on the sale of shares by such non-PRC resident enterprise investors may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 10% and such dividends and gains earned by non-PRC resident individual investors may be subject to PRC individual income tax at a rate of 20%. It is unclear whether, if we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, our non-resident investors would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or regions. 29 Table of Contents In addition to the uncertainty as to the application of the “resident enterprise” classification, there can be no assurance that the PRC Government will not amend or revise the taxation laws, rules and regulations to impose stricter tax requirements, higher tax rates or retroactively apply the EIT Law, or any subsequent changes in PRC tax laws, rules or regulations. If such changes occur and/or if such changes are applied retroactively, such changes could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. BBII was granted a five-year tax holiday in 2007 and was eligible to enjoy a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax followed by a three-year half reduction of enterprise income tax under the 2007 circular No. 39, or Circular 39. In December 2008, BBII was designated by the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission as “High and New Technology Enterprise” under the EIT Law and received the High and New Technology Enterprise certificate jointly issued by the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Beijing Finance Bureau, and Beijing State and Local Tax Bureaus. On April 21, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation of China, or SAT, issued a Circular on Further Clarification Concerning the Implementation Standards of Corporate Income Tax Incentives in Grandfathering Period, or Circular 157, stating that enterprises recognized as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” and eligible to enjoy a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax followed by a three-year half reduction of enterprise income tax under Circular 39, may choose between the reduced tax rate of 15% applicable to “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” and the tax exemption/reduction provided in Circular 39. Enterprises are not allowed to enjoy the 50% reduction of the preferential tax rate for “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state”, which is 15%. Circular 157 applies retroactively from January 1, 2008. Circular 157 was previously determined to be applicable to BBII in prior years and therefore, BBII was not allowed to enjoy the 50% reduction of the preferential tax rate of 15% according to Circular 157, and the applicable income tax rate for BBII was 10% and 11% for 2009 and 2010, respectively. However, in 2011, it was accepted by local governmental authority that BBII was also eligible for the 50% reduction of the preferential tax rate for “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” of 15%. Therefore, the income tax rate applicable for BBII was 7.5% for the years ended 2009, 2010 and 2011. In October 2011, BBII successfully renewed its “High and New Technology Enterprise” status for another three years and will be able to enjoy a preferential income tax rates of 15% for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2013 as long as it maintains its qualification and continues to meet the relevant requirements as a “High and New Technology Enterprise.” In December 2011, Beijing Bit EP Information Technology Company Limited, or Bit EP, was qualified as a “software enterprise” and will enjoy a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax followed by a three-year half reduction of enterprise income tax from the first fiscal year when Bit EP becomes profitable since December 2011. A notice issued by the relevant Beijing governmental authority in April 2013 requires enterprises established after January 1, 2011 with “software enterprise” qualification, like Bit EP, to re-apply for such qualification in accordance with requirements under the Administrative Measures for the Recognition of Software Enterprise issued by relevant PRC authority in February 2013, which took effect from April 1, 2013, or the New Software Enterprise Measures. Bit EP obtained the “software enterprise” qualification under the New Software Enterprise Measures in May 2013. If BBII or Bit EP fails to maintain its qualification, their applicable EIT rates may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC shareholders. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the SAT, on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by disposing the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report the Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise may be required to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions, and the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise remain unclear. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our future disposition of equity interests in certain non-resident holding companies that hold equity interests in any of our PRC subsidiaries, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our leased property interests may be defective and we may be forced to relocate operations affected by such defects, which could cause significant disruption to our business and have a negative impact on our operation and financial results. As of December 31, 2013, we had leased properties in 103 cities in China. With respect to 21 of these leased properties, the lessors failed to provide property title certificates proving the title ownership of these lessors. According to PRC laws, rules and regulations, in situations where a tenant lacks evidence of the landlord’s title or right to lease, the relevant lease agreement may not be valid or enforceable under PRC laws, rules and regulations, and may also be subject to challenge by third parties. However, we cannot assure you that such defects will be cured in a timely manner or at all. Our business may be interrupted and additional relocation costs may be incurred if we are required to relocate operations affected by such defects. Moreover, if our lease agreements are challenged by third parties, it could result in diversion of management attention and cause us to incur costs associated with defending such actions, even if such challenges are ultimately determined in our favor. In addition, certain lease agreements have not been registered with competent governmental authority. According to PRC laws, rules and regulations, the failure to register the lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, however, the landlord and the tenant may be subject to administrative fines of up to RMB10,000 each for such failure to register the lease. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any action, claim or investigation being conducted or threatened by the competent government authorities with respect to the defects in our leased properties. However, if we are fined or penalized by government authorities due to our lessors’ failure to register our lease agreements, our business and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock option plans may subject our PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under relevant PRC rules and regulations, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a qualified PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. If we or our PRC resident employees granted our stock options fail to comply with these regulations, we or such employees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. 31 Table of Contents The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and was amended on December 28, 2012. The Labor Contract Law formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions and provides for specific standards and procedure for the termination of an employment contract. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including in cases of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. As there has been little guidance as to how the Labor Contract Law will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains substantial uncertainty as to its potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. The trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$7.06 to US$35.04 in 2013 and from US$27.10 to US$46.93 to date in 2014. This was partly because of broad market and industry factors, such as the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or declining financial results of other companies based in China that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of other PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. The recent ongoing administrative proceedings brought by SEC against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they refused to hand over documents to the SEC for ongoing investigations into certain China-based companies, occurs at a time when accounting scandals have eroded investor appetite for China-based companies. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or matters of other PRC companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards PRC companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to our operating performance, which may have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, the market price for our ADSs is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions in the automobile or advertising industries in China; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that provide internet content and marketing services to automakers and dealers; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar or other currencies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of senior management; • release or expiration of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; • pending or potential litigation or administrative investigations; and • general economic or political conditions in China. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. 32 Table of Contents We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations and proceeds from public offerings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for ordinary operation in the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for return on your investment. We intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has significant discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial position, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Any future sales of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will distribute to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary and voting takes place at the shareholder meeting by poll. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter may materially and adversely affect the rights of shareholders. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. 33 Table of Contents You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive dividends or other distributions if it is unlawful or impracticable to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, determine that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the United States federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in a federal or state court of the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon; provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. 34 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in United States federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association contains certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preference shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preference shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares, including shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE and we intend to rely on certain exemptions. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. For example, we are not required to: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year; or • seek shareholder approval for (i) the implementation and material revisions of the terms of share incentive plans, (ii) the issuance of more than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares or 1% of the voting power outstanding to a related party, (iii) the issuance of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and (iv) an issuance that would result in a change of control. We currently intend to rely on certain exemptions provided by the NYSE to a foreign private issuer, except that we have a minimum of three members on our audit committee and we have adopted and disclosed a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. We also have a compensation committee, which has two members. We have also adopted our corporate governance guidelines and made it publicly available. As a result, our investors may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A non-United States corporation, such as our company, will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of its gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income, or (ii) 50% or more of the value of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our PRC structured entities as being owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective control over the operation of such entities but also because we are entitled to substantially all of their economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate their results of operations in our consolidated financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of our PRC structured entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC. 35 Table of Contents While we do not expect to be a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, there is a risk that we may become a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014 and future taxable years because of our significant cash balances and because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also depend, in part, on the composition of our income and assets, which will be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were to be classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased U.S. income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under U.S. federal income tax rules. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. We urge you to consult your tax advisor concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we are classified as a PFIC. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Compliance with rules and regulations applicable to companies publicly listed in the United States is costly and complex and any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us and cause the market price of our ADSs to decrease. In addition to Section 404, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also mandates, among other things, that companies adopt corporate governance measures, imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members, and imposes civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. For example, in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the NYSE has adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices. Our current and future compliance efforts will continue to require significant management attention. In addition, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers to fill critical positions within our company. Any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us, cause the market price of our ADSs to decrease or even result in the delisting of our ADSs from the NYSE. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have been subject to these requirements since the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2013. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2013. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 