D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the information contained in this annual report, particularly the risks described below, as well as in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The market price of our common shares may decrease due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Related to Our Business and Industries Unpredictable weather conditions, pest infestations and diseases may have an adverse impact on agricultural production and may reduce the volume and sucrose content of sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase in a given harvest. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions, especially droughts, hail, floods or frost are unpredictable and may have a potentially devastating impact on agricultural production and may otherwise adversely affect the supply and price of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business. Adverse weather conditions may be exacerbated by the effects of climate change. The effects of severe adverse weather conditions may reduce yields of our agricultural products. Additionally, higher than average temperatures and rainfall can contribute to an increased presence of insects. Commencing during the middle of 2008 and lasting until the middle of 2009, the areas in which we operate suffered one of the worst droughts of the last 50 to 70 years, which resulted in a reduction of approximately 15% to 40% of our agricultural production per hectare, depending on the affected commodity, compared with our historical averages. The occurrence and effects of disease and plagues can be unpredictable and devastating to agricultural products, potentially rendering all or a substantial portion of the affected harvests unsuitable for sale. Our agricultural products are also susceptible to fungus and bacteria that are associated with excessively moist conditions. Even when only a portion of the production is damaged, our results of operations could be adversely affected because all or a substantial portion of the production costs have been incurred. Although some diseases are treatable, the cost of treatment is high, and we cannot assure you that such events in the future will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, if we fail to control a given plague or disease and our production is threatened, we may be unable to supply our main customers, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by growers located in the vicinity of our mills. Both sugarcane yields and sucrose content depend primarily on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature, which vary. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries. Future weather patterns may reduce the amount of sugarcane that we can harvest or purchase, or the sucrose content in such sugarcane, and, consequently, the amount of sugar we can recover in any given harvest. Any reduction in the volume of sugar recovered could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As a result, we cannot assure you that future severe adverse weather conditions or pest infestations will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuation in market prices for our products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for agricultural products and by-products, including, among others, sugar, ethanol, grains and coffee, like those of other commodities, have historically been cyclical and sensitive to domestic and international changes in supply and demand and can be expected to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the agricultural products and by-products we produce are traded on commodities and futures exchanges and thus are subject to speculative trading, which may adversely affect us. The prices that we are able to obtain for our agricultural products and by-products depend on many factors beyond our control including: • prevailing world commodity prices, which historically have been subject to significant fluctuations over relatively short periods of time, depending on worldwide demand and supply; • changes in the agricultural subsidy levels of certain important producers (mainly the U.S. and the European Union (“E.U.”) and the adoption of other government policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; • changes to trade barriers of certain important consumer markets (including China, India, the U.S. and the E.U.) and the adoption of other governmental policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; • changes in government policies for biofuels; • world inventory levels, i.e., the supply of commodities carried over from year to year; • climatic conditions and natural disasters in areas where agricultural products are cultivated; • the production capacity of our competitors; and • demand for and supply of competing commodities and substitutes. For example, we reported a loss of $96.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a gain of $57.3 million in the same period in 2009 for our sugarcane business segment in the line item “Initial recognition and Changes in Fair Value of Biological Assets and Agricultural produce.” This loss was generated mainly by a decrease in price estimates used in the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model to determine the fair value of our sugarcane plantations. In the DCF model, the price of future harvested sugarcane is calculated based on estimates of sugar price derived from the No. 11 futures contract (“NY11”) quoted on the ICE-NY. Sugar price estimates decreased due to lower sugar market prices. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to year ended December 31, 2009.” Further, there is a strong relationship between the value of our land holdings and market prices of the commodities we produce, which are affected by global economic conditions. A decline in the prices of grains, coffee, sugar, ethanol, or related by-products below their current levels for a sustained period of time could significantly reduce the value of our land holdings and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Ethanol prices are correlated to the price of sugar and are becoming closely correlated to the price of oil, so that a decline in the price of sugar will adversely affect both our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in the price of oil may adversely affect our ethanol business. A vast majority of ethanol in Brazil is produced at sugarcane mills that produce both ethanol and sugar. Because sugarcane millers are able to alter their product mix in response to the relative prices of ethanol and sugar, this results in the prices of both products being directly correlated, and the correlation between ethanol and sugar may increase over time. In addition, sugar prices in Brazil are determined by prices in the world market, so that there is a strong correlation between Brazilian ethanol prices and world sugar prices. 10 Table of Contents Because flex-fuel vehicles, which have become popular in Brazil, allow consumers to choose between gasoline and ethanol at the pump rather than in the showroom, ethanol prices are now becoming increasingly correlated to gasoline prices and, consequently, oil prices. We believe that the correlation among the three products will increase over time. Accordingly, a decline in sugar prices will have an adverse effect on the financial performance of our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in oil prices may have an adverse effect on that of our ethanol business. The expansion of our business through acquisitions poses risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. As part of our business strategy, we have grown primarily through acquisitions. We plan to continue growing by acquiring other farms and production facilities throughout South America. We believe that the agricultural industry and agricultural activity in Argentina and Brazil are highly fragmented and that our future consolidation opportunities will continue to be significant to our growth. However, our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or strategic alliances will occur, or the likelihood of a certain transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. In addition, we are unable to predict the effect that changes in Argentine or Brazilian legislation regarding foreign ownership of rural properties could have in our business. See “—Risks Related to Argentina—Proposed changes in Argentine law concerning foreign ownership of rural properties may adversely affect our results of operations and future investments in rural properties in Argentina” and “—Risks Related to Brazil— Recent changes in Brazilian rules concerning foreign investment in rural properties may adversely affect our investments.” Our ability to continue to expand our business successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions or access capital markets at an acceptable cost and negotiate favorable transaction terms. Even if we are able to identify acquisition targets and obtain the necessary financing to make these acquisitions, we could financially overextend ourselves, especially if an acquisition is followed by a period of lower than projected prices for our products. Acquisitions also expose us to the risk of successor liability relating to actions involving an acquired company, its management or contingent liabilities incurred before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Any material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. To support the acquisitions we hope to make, we may need to implement new or upgraded strategies, systems, procedures and controls for our operations and will face risks, including diversion of management time and focus and challenges associated with integrating new managers and employees. Our failure to integrate new businesses successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Adverse conditions may create delays in or the suspension of the construction of our Ivinhema mill and/or significantly increase the amount of our expected investments. As part of our strategy to increase our production and increase our competitiveness through economies of scale, we are in the process of commencing the construction of the Ivinhema mill, which is expected to commence operations in 2013. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview.” Through March 31, 2011, we have invested $64.1 million in this project through the purchase of industrial equipment and 8,363 hectares of land, and we estimate that we will need to invest an additional $725 million to complete the construction of the Ivinhema mill (of which $230 million were raised through the IPO). See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow the additional funds we will need to complete the project on acceptable terms, or at all. The Ivinhema mill project involves various risks, including engineering, construction and regulatory risks, such as obtaining necessary permits and licenses as well as other significant challenges that can suspend the construction of the Ivinhema mill, hinder or delay the project’s scheduled completion date and successful operation or that can result in significant cost increases as well as foreign exchange risks 11 Table of Contents associated with incurring costs in Brazilian Reais. In addition, the Ivinhema mill may not operate at projected capacity or may incur higher operating costs than estimated, and we may not be able to sell the ethanol and sugar produced by the Ivinhema mill at competitive prices. If (1) construction is delayed or suspended, (2) we are required to invest more than the budgeted amount to complete the project, (3) we are unable to borrow the funds needed to complete the project on acceptable terms, or at all, (4) we fail to operate the mill or operate it at a lower capacity than we anticipate or (5) we are unable to sell all of the ethanol and sugar produced by the mill, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. A significant increase in the price of raw materials we use in our operations, or the shortage of such raw materials, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our production process requires various raw materials, including fertilizer, pesticides and seeds, which we acquire from local and international suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts for most of these raw materials. A significant increase in the cost of these raw materials, especially fertilizer and agrochemicals, a shortage of raw materials or the unavailability of these raw materials entirely could reduce our profit margin, reduce our production and/or interrupt the production of some of our products, in all cases adversely affecting the results of our operations and our financial condition. For example, we rely on fertilizers and agrochemicals, many of which are petro-chemical based. As of March 31, 2011, fertilizers and agrochemicals constituted approximately 25% of our cost of production for the 2009/2010 harvest. Worldwide production of agricultural products has increased significantly in recent years, increasing the demand for agrochemicals and fertilizers. This has resulted, among other things, in increased prices for agrochemicals and fertilizers. Increased energy prices and frequent interruptions of energy supply could adversely affect our business. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil and other resources for our harvest activities and transport of our agricultural products. Purchases of fuel constituted approximately 11.3% of our cost of production as of March 31, 2011. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources used in our operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, imposition of restrictions on energy supply by government, worldwide price levels and market conditions. Over the last few years, the Argentine government has taken certain measures in order to reduce the use of energy during peak months of the year by frequently cutting energy supply to industrial facilities and large consumers to ensure adequate supply for residential buildings. For example, certain of our industrial facilities have been subject to a quota system whereby electricity cuts occur on a work shift basis, resulting in our facilities being shut down during certain work shifts. While some of our facilities utilize different sources of energy, such as firewood and liquefied natural gas, and have attempted to stock their required supplies ahead of higher demand periods, we cannot assure you that we will be able to procure the required energy inputs at acceptable prices. If energy supply is cut for an extended period of time and we are unable to find replacement sources at comparable prices, or at all, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on international trade and economic and other conditions in key export markets for our products. Our operating results depend largely on economic conditions and regulatory policies for our products in major export markets. The ability of our products to compete effectively in these export markets may be adversely affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions, volatility of exchange rates, the imposition of greater tariffs or other trade barriers or other factors in those markets, such as regulations relating to chemical content of products and safety requirements. Due to the growing participation in the worldwide agricultural commodities markets by commodities produced in South America, South American growers, including us, are increasingly affected by the measures taken by importing countries in order to protect their local producers. Measures 12 Table of Contents such as the limitation on imports adopted in a particular country or region may affect the sector’s export volume significantly and, consequently, our operating results. Between April 1 and October 12, 2010, China implemented a ban on the import of soybean oil with exceeding amounts of hexane residue, a chemical used in the extraction of soybean oil from oilseeds. This ban has effectively forced us and other Argentine soybean oil producers who utilize hexane out of the market for Chinese imports, impacting the price we can obtain for our soybean oil production. Similarly, the European Union has a zero tolerance policy with respect to the import of genetically modified organisms, or “GMOs”. See “Some of the agricultural commodities and food products that we produce contain genetically modified organisms.” While the recent drought in Europe has led to the relaxation of these restrictions for certain products, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to export any of our products with GMOs to the European Union. If the sale of our products into a particular importing country is adversely affected by trade barriers or by any of the factors mentioned above, the relocation of our products to other consumers on terms equally favorable could be impaired, and our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly depending on the growing cycle of our crops. As with any agricultural business enterprise, our business operations are predominantly seasonal in nature. The harvest of corn, soybean and rice generally occurs from January to May. Wheat is harvested from December to January. Coffee and cotton are harvested from June to August, but require processing which takes approximately two to three months. Our operations and sales are affected by the growing cycle of the crops we process and the timing of our harvest sales. In addition, our sugar and ethanol business is subject to seasonal trends based on the sugarcane growing cycle in the center-south region of Brazil. The annual sugarcane harvesting period in the center-south region of Brazil begins in April and ends in December. This creates fluctuations in our inventory, usually peaking in December to cover sales between crop harvests (i.e., January through April), and a degree of seasonality in our gross profit. Seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. In addition, our quarterly results may vary as a result of the effects of fluctuations in commodities prices, production yields and costs. Therefore, our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period and are likely to continue to vary, due to seasonal factors. Our dairy and beef cattle are vulnerable to diseases. Diseases among our cattle herds, such as mastitis, tuberculosis, brucellosis and foot-and-mouth disease, can have an adverse effect on the productivity of our dairy cows. Outbreaks of cattle diseases may also result in the closure of certain important markets to our cattle-derived products. Although we abide by national veterinary health guidelines, including laboratory analyses and vaccination, to control diseases among our herds, especially foot-and-mouth disease, we cannot assure you that future outbreaks of cattle diseases will not occur. A future outbreak of diseases among our cattle herds could adversely affect our milk sales and operating results and financial condition. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our potential losses. Our production is, in general, subject to different risks and hazards, including adverse weather conditions, fires, diseases and pest infestations, other natural phenomena, industrial accidents, labor disputes, changes in the legal and regulatory framework applicable to us, environmental contingencies and other natural phenomena. Our insurance currently covers only part of the losses we may incur and does not cover losses on crops due to hail storms, fires or similar risks. Furthermore, although we maintain insurance at levels that are customary in our industry, certain types of risks may not be covered by the policies we have for our industrial facilities. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that the indemnification paid by the insurer due to the occurrence of a casualty covered by our policies will be sufficient to entirely compensate us for the damages suffered. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable costs. If 13 Table of Contents we were to incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to material losses due to volatile prices of agricultural products since we do not fully hedge our agricultural products price risk. We also may not be able to realize gains related to price appreciation for hedged positions. Because we do not hedge 100% of the price risk on our agricultural products, we are unable to have minimum price guarantees for all of our production and are, therefore, exposed to significant risks associated with the prices of agricultural products and their volatility. We are subject to fluctuations in prices of agricultural products that could result in our receiving lower prices for our agricultural products than our production costs. Further, as a commodities producer, we naturally have a long position in agricultural products, which increases our risk of loss if prices of agricultural products decrease. If the prices of agricultural products in respect of which we have entered into hedges increase beyond the prices specified in our various hedging agreements, we would lose some or all of the value of any such increase in prices. We are also subject to exchange rate risks with respect to hedges we have entered into for our agricultural products because our futures and options positions are valued in U.S. dollars while a portion of our production costs are in the currencies of the countries in which we operate. In addition, if severe weather conditions or any other disaster causes lower production than that which we have already sold in the market, we may suffer material losses in the repurchase of sold contracts. A reduction in market demand for ethanol or a change in governmental policies reducing the amount of ethanol required to be added to gasoline may adversely affect our business. Government authorities of several countries, including Brazil and certain states of the United States, currently require the use of ethanol as an additive to gasoline. Since 1997, the Sugar and Alcohol Interministerial Council of Brazil (Conselho Interministerial do Açúcar e Álcool) has set the required blend of anhydrous ethanol to gasoline (currently 25% ethanol to 75% gasoline by volume). Approximately 32% of all fuel ethanol in Brazil is used to fuel automobiles that run on a blend of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline; the remaining 68% of fuel ethanol is used in flex-fuel vehicles powered by hydrous ethanol alone. Five districts in China require the addition of 10% ethanol to gasoline. Japan is discussing requiring the addition of 3% of ethanol to gasoline and increasing the requirement to 20% by 2030, and nine states and four union territories in India require the addition of 5% of ethanol to gasoline. Other countries have similar governmental policies requiring various blends of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline. In addition, flex-fuel vehicles in Brazil are currently taxed at lower levels than gasoline-only vehicles, which has contributed to the increase in production and sale of flex-fuel vehicles. Many of these policies and incentives stem from, and are mostly driven by, climate change concerns and the positive perceptions regarding the use of ethanol as a solution to the climate change problem. If such concerns or perception were to change, the legal framework and incentive structure promoting the use of ethanol may be revised, leading to a reduction in the demand for ethanol. In addition, any reduction in the percentage of ethanol required in fuel blended with gasoline or increase in the levels at which flex-fuel vehicles are taxed in Brazil, or any growth in the demand for natural gas and other fuels as an alternative to ethanol, lower gasoline prices or an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may cause demand for ethanol to decline and affect our business. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol depends in part on infrastructure improvements, which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all. In contrast to the well-established logistical operations and infrastructure supporting sugar exports, ethanol exports inherently demand much more complex preparation and means of distribution, including outlets from our facilities to ports and shipping to other countries. Substantial infrastructure development by persons and entities outside our control is required for our operations, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in 14 Table of Contents truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels, and growth in the fleet of flex-fuel vehicles. Specifically, with respect to ethanol exports, improvements in consumer markets abroad are needed in the number and capacity of ethanol blending industrial plants, the distribution channels of gasoline-ethanol blends and the chains of distribution stations capable of handling fuel ethanol as an additive to gasoline. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure may hurt the demand for or prices of our products, prevent our products’ delivery, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a serious adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial status. Our business relies on the continuing availability of infrastructure, and any infrastructure disruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be harmed by competition from alternative fuels, products and production methods. Ethanol competes in the biofuel market with other, established fuels such as biodiesel, as well as fuels that are still in the development phase, including methanol and butanol from biomass. Alternative fuels could become more successful than ethanol in the biofuels market over the medium or long term due, for example, to lower production costs, greater environmental benefits or other more favorable product characteristics. In addition, alternative fuels may also benefit from tax incentives or other favorable governmental treatment, from which they may benefit at the expense of ethanol. Furthermore, our success depends on early identification of new developments relating to products and production methods and continuous expansion and preservation of our existing expertise in order to ensure that our product range keeps pace with technological change. Competitors may gain an advantage over us by, for example, developing or using new products and production methods, introducing new products to the market sooner than we do, or securing exclusive rights to new technologies, thereby significantly harming our competitive position. A substantial portion of our assets is farmland that is highly illiquid. We have been successful in partially rotating and monetizing a portion of our investments in farmland. During the last eight years, we have executed transactions for the purchase and disposition of land for over $460 million. Owning of a significant portion of the land we operate is a key part of our business model. However, agricultural real estate is generally an illiquid asset. Moreover, the adoption of laws and regulations that impose limitations on ownership of rural land by foreigners in the jurisdictions in which we operate may also limit the liquidity of our farmland holdings. See “—Risks Related to Argentina—Proposed changes in Argentine law concerning foreign ownership of rural properties may adversely affect our results of operations and future investments in rural properties in Argentina” and “—Risks Related to Brazil— Recent changes in Brazilian rules concerning foreign investment in rural properties may adversely affect our investments.” As a result, it is unlikely that we will be able to adjust our owned agricultural real estate portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic, business or regulatory conditions. Illiquidity in local market conditions may adversely affect our ability to complete dispositions, to receive proceeds generated from any such sales or to repatriate any such proceeds. We lease or have agriculture partnerships relating to a significant portion of our sugarcane plantations. As for March 31, 2011, approximately 82% of our area of sugarcane plantations were leased or were subject to agriculture partnership agreements, for periods of an average of six to twelve years. We cannot guarantee that these leases or agriculture partnerships will be renewed after their respective terms. Even if we are able to renew these agreements, we cannot guarantee that such renewals will be on terms and conditions satisfactory to us. Any failure to renew the leases or agriculture partnerships or obtain land suitable for sugarcane planting in sufficient quantity and at reasonable prices to develop our activities could adversely affect our results of operations, increase our costs or force us to seek alternative properties, which may not be available or be available only at higher prices. 15 Table of Contents We may be subject to labor disputes from time to time that may adversely affect us. Our employees are represented by unions or equivalent bodies and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. We may not successfully conclude our labor negotiations on satisfactory terms, which may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor or may result in work stoppages or labor disturbances that disrupt our operations. For example, a short-lived strike at UMA in 2009 resulted in a plant stoppage which, when coupled with the adverse weather conditions during the harvest season, resulted in a reduction of 16,000 tons of sugarcane that otherwise would have been milled during the 2009 fiscal year, with an estimated impact of approximately $100,000 to our operating results. Cost increases, work stoppages or disturbances that result in substantial amounts of raw product not being processed could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation, and concerns regarding climate change may subject us to even stricter environmental regulations. Our activities are subject to a broad set of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws include compulsory maintenance of certain preserved areas within our properties, management of pesticides and associated hazardous waste and the acquisition of permits for water use and effluents disposal. In addition, the storage and processing of our products may create hazardous conditions. We could be exposed to criminal and administrative penalties in addition to the obligation to remedy the adverse affects of our operations on the environment and to indemnify third parties for damages. Environmental laws and their enforcement are becoming more stringent in Argentina and Brazil increasing the risk of and penalties associated with violations, which could impair or suspend our operations or projects (e.g., the Ivinhema mill licensing), and our operations expose us to potentially adverse environmental legislation and regulation. Failure to comply with past, present or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, third party claims, and investigation by the environmental authorities and competent public attorney office. For example, the perceived effects of climate change may result in additional legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of our industrial facilities’ emissions. Such requirements, if enacted, could increase our capital expenditures and expenses for environmental compliance in the future, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the denial of any permit that we have requested, or the revocation of any of the permits that we have already obtained, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the agricultural commodities and food products that we produce contain genetically modified organisms. Our soybean, corn and cotton products contain GMOs in varying proportions depending on the year and the country of production. The use of GMOs in food has been met with varying degrees of acceptance in the markets in which we operate. The United States, Argentina and Brazil, for example, have approved the use of GMOs in food products, and GMO and non-GMO grain in those countries is produced and frequently commingled during the grain origination process. Elsewhere, adverse publicity about genetically modified food has led to governmental regulation limiting sales of GMO products in some of the markets in which our customers sell our products, including the European Union. It is possible that new restrictions on GMO products will be imposed in major markets for some of our products or that our customers will decide to purchase fewer GMO products or not buy GMO products at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. If our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims, product recalls and restrictions on exports that would adversely affect our business. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. These injuries may result from tampering by third parties, bioterrorism, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of bacteria, pathogens, foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. 16 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image, and we could also incur significant legal expenses. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our principal shareholders have the ability to direct our business and affairs, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of March 31, 2011, our principal shareholders are the beneficial owners of approximately 71.89% of our common shares. As a result of this significant influence over us, our principal shareholders may be able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, direct our management and determine the result of substantially all resolutions that require shareholders’ approval, including fundamental corporate transactions and the payment of dividends by us. The interests of our principal shareholders may differ from, and could conflict with, those of our other shareholders. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We intend to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) thereunder, which we refer to as “Section 404.” The process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies of which we are not currently aware. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We are not currently required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting or include an attestation report of our auditors on our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to the SEC’s rules under Section 404. We expect that these rules will apply to us when we file our annual report on Form 20-F for our fiscal year ending in December 31, 2012, which we will be required to file by April 30, 2013. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions, stock exchange delisting or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers or fail to gain new customers and otherwise negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. 17 Table of Contents The historical financial information in this annual report may not accurately predict our costs of operations in the future. The historical financial information in this annual report does not reflect the added costs we incurred as a public company. For more information regarding historical financial information prior to the Reorganization, see “—A. Selected Financial Data,” “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and the consolidated financial statements in this annual report. IFRS accounting standards require us to make numerous estimates in the compilation and preparation of our financial results and limit the comparability of our financial statements to similar issuers using U.S. GAAP. IFRS accounting standards for agricultural companies require that we make assumptions and estimates relating to, among other things, future agricultural commodity yields, prices, and production costs extrapolated through a discounted cash flow method. For example, the value of our biological assets with a production cycle lasting more than one year (i.e., sugarcane, coffee and cattle) generated initial recognition and changes in fair value of biological assets amounting to 78.8 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 (2009: $52.9 million gain; 2008: $25.1 million gain). For 2010, an amount of $60.1 million loss (2009: $29.8 million gain; 2008: $29.6 million) was solely attributable to price changes (see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements). In addition, the impact of price estimates on our results is evidenced most recently in our sugarcane business due to changes in the market price of sugar. For example, we reported a loss of $96.8 million in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to a gain of $57.3 million in the same period in 2009 for our sugarcane business segment in the line item “Initial recognition and Changes in Long Term Biological Assets – unrealized” due principally to the decrease in the market price of sugar. These assumptions and estimates, and any changes to such prior estimates, directly affect our reported results of operations. If actual market conditions differ from our estimates and assumptions, there could be material adjustments to our results of operations. In addition, the use of such discounted cash flow method utilizing these future estimated metrics differs from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). As a result, our financial statements and reported earnings are not directly comparable to those of similar companies in the United States. Certain of our subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness which could impair their financial condition and decrease the amount of dividends we receive. Certain of our subsidiaries in Argentina and Brazil have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant principal and interest payments. As of March 31, 2011, we had $403.9 million of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis, all of which was incurred by our subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Adecoagro. Such indebtedness could affect our subsidiaries’ future operations, for example, by requiring a substantial portion of their cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness instead of funding working capital and other business purposes, making it more difficult for them to satisfy all of their debt obligations, increasing their cost of borrowing to satisfy business needs and limiting their ability to obtain additional financing. The substantial level of indebtedness borne by certain of our subsidiaries also affects the amount of cash available to them to pay as dividends, increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns or other adverse developments relative to competitors with less leverage; and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on their behalf for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes in the future. The terms of the indebtedness of, and past breaches of financial ratio covenants by, certain of our subsidiaries impose significant restrictions on their operating and financial flexibility. The debt instruments of certain of our subsidiaries contain customary covenants including limitations on their ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; make restricted payments, including dividends and prepaying indebtedness; create or permit certain liens; enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; make investments, including capital expenditures; and enter into new 18 Table of Contents businesses. Certain of these debt instruments are also secured by various collateral including mortgages on certain farms, pledges of subsidiary stock and liens on certain facilities, equipment and accounts. Certain of these debt instruments also contain cross-default provisions, where a default on one loan by one subsidiary could result in lenders of otherwise performing loans declaring a default on the otherwise performing loans. For more information regarding the covenants, collateral, and cross-default provisions of our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness and Financial Instruments.” These restrictions could limit our subsidiaries’ ability to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Moreover, by reducing the level of dividends we may receive, such indebtedness places limits on our ability to make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The terms of certain of our subsidiaries’ debt instruments contain financial ratio covenants, limitations on their levels of debt and capital expenditures and requirements on maintaining various levels of EBITDA. During 2008, 2009 and 2010, certain of our operating subsidiaries in Argentina and Brazil breached certain financial ratio covenants under their debt instruments, and subsequently entered with the lenders into amendments to redefine the terms of such financial ratio covenants. The financial ratio covenants we are currently required to meet, some of which are measured on a combined basis aggregating results of the borrowing subsidiaries and others which are measured on an individual debtor basis, include, among others, debt service coverage, minimum liquidity and leverage ratios. For detailed information regarding the financial ratio covenants, limitations on levels of debt and capital expenditures and requirements on EBITDA, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness and Financial Instruments.” The failure by our subsidiaries to maintain applicable financial ratios, in certain circumstances, would prevent them from borrowing additional amounts and could result in a default under such indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to repay those amounts, the affected lenders could initiate bankruptcy-related proceedings or enforce their rights to the collateral securing such indebtedness, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For detailed information regarding the terms of our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness and Financial Instruments.” Fluctuations in interest rates could have a significant impact on our results of operations, indebtedness and cash flow. As of March 31, 2011, approximately 58% of our total debt was subject to variable interest rates and 42% was subject to fixed interest rates. As of March 31, 2011, the variable-rate interest bearing indebtedness of our Argentine subsidiaries had a rate of LIBOR plus 5%, and the variable-rate interest bearing indebtedness of our Brazilian subsidiaries had a rate of LIBOR or other country-specific rates such as the Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo (TJLP) or Certificado de Depósito Interbancario (CDI) plus spreads ranging between 2.65% and 8.65% per annum. Significant interest rate increases can have an adverse effect on our profitability, liquidity and financial position. Currently, our variable interest rate exposure is mainly linked to the LIBOR rate plus specified spreads. If interest rates increase, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our net income could be adversely affected. See also “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We occasionally use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues and to achieve a desired proportion of variable-versus fixed-rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. We have not applied hedge accounting to these transactions and may not do so in the future. Therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments can result in a non-cash charge or gain being recognized in our financial results for a period preceding the period or periods in which settlement occurs under the derivative instruments and interest payments are made. Changes or shifts in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of our derivatives and therefore could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if interest rates fluctuate 19 Table of Contents materially from the time when the derivatives were entered into. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We may not be able to renew our credit lines when they mature, depriving us of needed liquidity. Certain of our subsidiaries rely substantially on existing credit lines to support their operations and business needs through the agricultural harvest cycle. If we are unable to renew these credit lines when they expire, or if we cannot replace such credit lines with other borrowing facilities, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially increase our U.S. federal income tax liability and subject any dividends we pay to U.S. federal withholding tax. We acquired approximately 98% of IFH, a holding company which is a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes organized under the laws of Delaware, immediately prior to our IPO, in exchange for our stock. Under U.S. Internal Revenue Code section 7874(b), we would be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation if we were deemed to have acquired substantially all of the assets constituting the trade or business of a U.S. domestic partnership and former members of IFH were deemed to own at least 80% of our stock by reason of the transfer of those trade or business assets (ignoring stock issued in our IPO for purposes of the 80% threshold). Although we and our subsidiaries conduct no direct business activity in the United States and we believe that, and we obtained an opinion from our U.S. tax counsel in connection with the IPO to the effect that, our acquisition of IFH should not be subject to the rules above, those rules are unclear in certain respects and there is limited guidance on the application of the rules to partnership acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not seek to assert that we are a U.S. domestic corporation, which assertion if successful could materially increase our U.S. federal income tax liability and require us to withhold tax from any dividends we pay. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation.” Risks Associated with the Countries in which We Operate We operate our business in emerging markets. Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon economic conditions in those countries in which we operate, and any decline in economic conditions could harm our results of operations or financial condition. All of our operations and/or development activities are in South America. As of March 31, 2011, based on the net book value of our combined investment property and property, plant and equipment, approximately 33% of our assets were located in Argentina, 66% in Brazil and 1% in Uruguay. During the year ended 2010, 77% of our combined sales of manufactured products and services rendered and sales of agricultural produce and biological assets were attributable to our Argentine operations, 22% were attributable to our Brazilian operations and 1% were attributable to our Uruguayan operations. We sell our products and produce and offer services to a large base of customers across the countries in which we operate. On a consolidated basis, the customers for our crops business are primarily located in Argentina, where more than 60% of our crop sales are concentrated in six crop exporters. Our customers for our cattle business are dispersed throughout Argentina and the customer for our dairy business is usually our joint venture company La Lácteo S.A. Our customers for our ethanol and sugar businesses are mainly concentrated in a few customers located in Brazil. We expect that in the future we will have additional operations in the South American countries in which we now operate or in other countries with similar political, economic and social conditions. Many of these countries have a history of economic instability or crises (such as inflation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, civil strife, changes in laws and regulations, expropriation or nationalization of property, and exchange controls which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, fluctuations in the economies of Argentina and Brazil and actions adopted by the governments of those countries have had and may continue to have a significant impact on companies operating in those countries, including us. Specifically, we have been affected and may continue to be affected by inflation, increased interest rates, fluctuations in the value of the Argentine Peso and Brazilian Real against foreign 20 Table of Contents currencies, price and foreign exchange controls, regulatory policies, business and tax regulations and in general by the political, social and economic scenarios in Argentina and Brazil and in other countries that may affect Argentina and Brazil. The economies of the countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by the deterioration of other global markets. Financial and securities markets in the countries in which we operate are influenced, to different degrees, by the economic and market conditions in other countries, including other South American and emerging market countries and other global markets. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries, such as the recent developments in the global financial markets, may substantially affect the capital flows into, and the market value of securities of issuers with operations in, the countries in which we operate. A crisis in other emerging market countries could dampen investor enthusiasm for securities of issuers with South American operations, including our common shares. This could adversely affect the market price for our common shares, as well as make it difficult for us to access capital markets and obtain financing for our operations in the future, on acceptable terms or under any conditions. A significant deterioration in the economic growth of any of the main trading partners of Brazil or Argentina could have a material impact on the trade balance of those countries and could adversely affect their economic growth. In 2008, the global financial crisis had an adverse impact on global economic conditions. Even though by 2010 the world economies showed certain signs of recovery, it is yet uncertain how the current financial crisis will impact the countries in which we operate, which could include a reduction in exports, a decline in tax revenues and a reduced ability to access international capital markets. Governments have a high degree of influence in the economies in which we operate, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Governments in many of the markets in which we currently or may in the future operate frequently intervene in their respective economies and occasionally make significant changes in monetary, credit, industry and other policies and regulations. Government actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what measures or policies governments may take in the future. The results of operations and financial condition of our businesses may be adversely affected by changes in governmental policy or regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate that impact factors such as: • labor laws; • economic growth; • currency fluctuations; • inflation; • exchange and capital control policies; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • monetary policy; 21 Table of Contents • liquidity and solvency of the financial system; • limitations on ownership of rural land by foreigners; • developments in trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization or other international organizations; • environmental regulations; • tax laws, including royalties and the effect of tax laws on distributions from our subsidiaries; • restrictions on repatriation of investments and on the transfer of funds abroad; • expropriation or nationalization; • import/export restrictions or other laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment; • price fixing regulations; • restrictions on land use or agricultural commodity production; and • other political, social and economic developments, including political, social or economic instability, in or affecting the country where each business is based. Uncertainty over whether governments will implement changes in policy or regulation affecting these or other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty and heightened volatility in the securities markets, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar in the countries in which we operate our businesses may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We operate exclusively outside the United States, and our businesses may be impacted by significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the transaction exposure associated with generating revenues and incurring expenses in different currencies and the devaluation of local currency revenues impairing the value of investments in U.S. dollars. While the consolidated financial statements presented herein are, and our future consolidated financial statements will be, presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying: (i) a period-end exchange rate for assets and liabilities; and (ii) an average exchange rate for the period for income and expenses. Resulting exchange differences arising from the translation to our presentation currency are recognized as a separate component of equity. Currencies in Argentina and Brazil have fluctuated significantly against the U.S. dollar in the past. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could impair the comparability of our results from period to period and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. After reaching a high of Ps.3.87 per $1 in June 2002, the exchange rate of the Argentine Peso to the dollar has remained relatively stable. However, the increasing level of inflation is generating pressure for further depreciation of the Peso. The Peso depreciated 2.27% against the U.S. dollar in 2007, 9.49% in 2008, 10.40% in 2009, 4.72% in 2010 and 1% as of March 2011. It is impossible to predict future fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Argentine Peso or whether the Argentine government will change its currency policy. The Brazilian currency has historically suffered frequent fluctuations. As a consequence of inflationary pressures, in the past, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and adopted a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange 22 Table of Contents controls and dual exchange rate markets. Currently, the value of the Real against foreign currencies is determined under a free-floating exchange rate regime. Periodically, there are significant fluctuations in the value of the Real against the U.S. dollar. The Real appreciated 16.9% against the U.S. dollar in 2007, depreciated 31.6% in 2008, appreciated 25.4% in 2009 and appreciated 4.4% in 2010. Against the euro, the Real appreciated 7.5% in 2007, depreciated 24.1% in 2008, appreciated 22.6% in 2009 and appreciated 11.14% in 2010. On March 31, 2011, the Real/U.S. dollar exchange rate was R$1.6287 per U.S. dollar, and the Real/euro exchange rate was R$2.3129 per euro, as reported by the Central Bank of Brazil. We cannot predict whether the Brazilian Central Bank will continue to let the Real float freely. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict what impact the Brazilian government’s exchange rate policies may have on us. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will not in the future impose a band within which the Real/U.S. dollar exchange rate could fluctuate or set a fixed exchange rate, nor can we predict what impact such an event might have on our financial condition or results of operations. Future fluctuations in the value of the local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in the countries in which we operate may occur, and if such fluctuations were to occur in one or a combination of the countries in which we operate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Inflation in some of the countries in which we operate, along with governmental measures to combat inflation, may have a significant negative effect on the economies of those countries and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, high levels of inflation have adversely affected the economies and financial markets of some of the countries in which we operate, particularly Argentina and Brazil, and the ability of their governments to create conditions that stimulate or maintain economic growth. Moreover, governmental measures to curb inflation and speculation about possible future governmental measures have contributed to the negative economic impact of inflation and have created general economic uncertainty. A portion of our operating costs in Argentina are denominated in Argentine Pesos and most of our operating costs in Brazil are denominated in Brazilian Reais. Inflation in Argentina or Brazil, without a corresponding Peso or Real devaluation could result in an increase in our operating costs without a commensurate increase in our revenues, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to pay our foreign denominated obligations. After several years of price stability in Argentina, the devaluation of the Peso in January 2002 imposed pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002. In 2003, inflation decreased significantly and stabilized. However, since 2004, encouraged by the pace of economic growth, according to the Argentine Statistics and Census Agency (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos, or “INDEC”), the consumer price index increased by 6.1% in 2004, 12.3% in 2005, 9.8% in 2006, 8.5% in 2007, 7.2% in 2008, 7.7% in 2009 and 10.9% in 2010; while the wholesale price index went up 7.9% in 2004, 10.6% in 2005, 7.2% in 2006, 14.6% in 2007, 8.8% in 2008, 10.3% in 2009 and 14.6% in 2010. The accuracy of the measurements of the INDEC is in doubt, and the actual consumer price index and wholesale price index could be substantially higher than those indicated by the INDEC. For example, according to a research center of the University of Buenos Aires, School of Economics, the consumer price index increased by 10.7% (rather than 9.8%) in 2006, 25.7% (rather than 8.5%) in 2007, 23.0% (rather than 7.2%) in 2008, 15.0% (rather than 7.7%) in 2009 and 23.4% from January through November 2010 (last available information). See “—Risks Related to Argentina—There are concerns about the accuracy of the INDEC’s measurements.” Brazil has historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation, as well as government efforts to curb inflation, had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy, particularly prior to 1995. Inflation rates were 7.7% in 2007 and 9.8% in 2008, compared to deflation of 1.7% in 2009 and inflation of 11.32% in 2010, as measured by the General Market Price Index (Indice Geral de Preços — Mercado), compiled by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (Fundação Getúlio Vargas). A significant proportion of our cash costs and our operating expenses are denominated in Brazilian Reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have in the past included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and reducing 23 Table of Contents economic growth. As a result, interest rates have fluctuated significantly. The Special System for Settlement and Custody (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e Custódia, or “SELIC”) interest rate in Brazil at year-end was 13.25% in 2006, 11.25% in 2007, 13.75% in 2008, 8.75% in 2009 and 10.75% in 2010, as determined by the Comitê de Política Monetária, or COPOM. If inflation in Brazil increases, the Brazilian government may choose to increase the SELIC interest rate. Argentina and/or Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future, which may impact domestic demand for our products. Inflationary pressures may also weaken investor confidence in Argentina and/or Brazil, curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and lead to further government intervention in the economy, including interest rate increases, restrictions on tariff adjustments to offset inflation, intervention in foreign exchange markets and actions to adjust or fix currency values, which may trigger or exacerbate increases in inflation, and consequently have an adverse impact on us. In an inflationary environment, the value of uncollected accounts receivable, as well as of unpaid accounts payable, declines rapidly. If the countries in which we operate experience high levels of inflation in the future and price controls are imposed, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our customers to fully offset the impact of inflation on our cost structures, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Depreciations of the Peso or the Real relative to the U.S. dollar or the euro may also create additional inflationary pressures in Argentina or Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciations generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciations also reduce the U.S. dollar or euro value of dividends and other distributions on our shares and the U.S. dollar or euro equivalent of the market price of our shares. Any of the foregoing might adversely affect our business, operating results, and cash flow, as well as the market price of our common shares. Conversely, in the short term, a significant increase in the value of the Peso or the Real against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect the respective Argentine and/or Brazilian government’s income from exports. This could have a negative effect on gross domestic product (“GDP”) growth and employment and could also reduce the public sector’s revenues in those countries by reducing tax collection in real terms, as a portion of public sector revenues are derived from the collection of export taxes. Disruption of transportation and logistics services or insufficient investment in public infrastructure could adversely affect our operating results. One of the principal disadvantages of the agricultural sector in the countries in which we operate is that key growing regions lie far from major ports. As a result, efficient access to transportation infrastructure and ports is critical to the growth of agriculture as a whole in the countries in which we operate and of our operations in particular. Improvements in transportation infrastructure are likely to be required to make more agricultural production accessible to export terminals at competitive prices. A substantial portion of agricultural production in the countries in which we operate is currently transported by truck, a means of transportation significantly more expensive than the rail transportation available to U.S. and other international producers. Our dependence on truck transportation may affect our position as a low-cost producer so that our ability to compete in the world markets may be impaired. Even though road and rail improvement projects have been considered for some areas of Brazil, and in some cases implemented, substantial investments are required for road and rail improvement projects, which may not be completed on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay or failure in developing infrastructure systems could reduce the demand for our products, impede our products’ delivery or impose additional costs on us. We currently outsource the transportation and logistics services necessary to operate our business. Any disruption in these services could result in supply problems at our farms and processing facilities and impair our ability to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Argentina Argentine economic and political conditions and perceptions of these conditions in the international market may have a direct impact on our business and our access to international capital and debt markets, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. Between 2001 and 2003 Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. In 2002, the enactment of Law No. 25,561 (the “Public Emergency Law”) ended more than a decade of uninterrupted Peso/dollar parity, and the value of the Peso against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly since then. Although general economic conditions in Argentina have recovered significantly during the past years, there is uncertainty as to whether this growth is sustainable. This is mainly because the economic growth was initially dependent on a significant devaluation of the Argentine Peso, a high excess production capacity resulting from a long period of deep recession and high commodity prices. The global economic crisis of 2008 has led to a sudden economic decline, accompanied by political and social unrest, inflationary and Peso depreciation pressures and lack of consumer and investor confidence. According to the INDEC, Argentina’s GDP, in real terms, grew by 8.7% in 2007, 6.8% in 2008, 0.9% in 2009 and 9.2% in 2010. See “—There are concerns about the accuracy of the INDEC’s measurements” and “—Risks Associated with the Countries in which We Operate—Inflation in some of the countries in which we operate, along with governmental measures to combat inflation, may have a significant negative effect on the economies of those countries and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations” in this section. We cannot assure you that GDP will increase or remain stable in the future. The economic crisis in Europe, beginning with the financial crisis in Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, the international demand for Argentine products, the stability and competitiveness of the Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors, a stable and relatively low rate of inflation and the future political uncertainties, among other factors, may affect the development of the Argentine economy. Additionally, Argentine presidential elections will take place in October 2011. In Argentina, the president has significant power to determine public policies and introduce measures affecting the Argentine economy and companies such as ours. The new government, whether or not controlled by the current president’s political party, may seek to implement changes to existing public policies. For example, the current or future government may face pressure to increase taxes (including export taxes), due to increasing inflation and public debt. This could have a material adverse impact on our Argentine subsidiaries’ operations. The economy of Argentina may be affected by its government’s limited access to financing from international markets. Argentina has very limited access to foreign financing. As of December 31, 2010, Argentina’s total public debt amounted to $144.5 billion. In 2002, Argentina defaulted on over $81.8 billion in external debt to bondholders. In addition, since 2002, Argentina suspended payments on over $15.7 billion in debt to multilateral financial institutions (e.g. International Monetary Fund and the Paris Club) and other financial institutions. In 2006, Argentina cancelled all its outstanding debt with the International Monetary Fund totaling approximately $9.5 billion, and through various exchange offers made to bondholders between 2004 and 2010, restructured over approximately $74.2 billion of the defaulted debt. As of December 31, 2010, the Argentine government was still in default with respect of over $6.8 billion of debt to bondholders. As of such date, Argentina’s total public debt amounts to $164.3 billion (excluding the debt in default to bondholders). 25 Table of Contents In 2010, the Argentine government applied US$6.4 billion of the Argentine Central Bank’s reserves to the payment of public debt. Due to the lack of access to the international capital markets, the Argentine government may continue to use the Argentine Central Bank’s foreign-currency reserves for the payment of Argentina’s current debt. The reduction of the Argentine Central Bank’s reserves may weaken Argentina’s ability to overcome economic deterioration in the future. Without access to international private financing, Argentina may not be able to finance its obligations, and financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available. This could also inhibit the ability of the Argentine Central Bank to adopt measures to curb inflation and could adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth and public finances, which could, in turn, adversely affect our operations in Argentina, our financial condition or the results of our operations. Proposed changes in Argentine law concerning foreign ownership of rural properties may adversely affect our results of operations and future investments in rural properties in Argentina. On April 27, 2011, the President of Argentina submitted a proposal for new legislation that seeks to establish restrictions on foreign ownership and acquisition of rural land in Argentina. According to its terms, foreign entities are defined to include (1) legal entities incorporated in Argentina or abroad, whose capital is owned more than 51% by foreign natural or legal entities; (2) legal entities, whether Argentine or foreign, with 25% foreign holders, or who are controlled by foreign holders; (3) companies that have issued bonds or debentures allowing foreign holders to increase their shareholding at a percentage greater than 25%; and (4) any legal entity, including partnerships and joint ventures, regulated by the Argentine companies law (Ley de Sociedades), or that may be regulated by such law in the future, whenever foreign natural or legal persons participate in them at a proportion greater than that authorized by the proposed legislation. The proposed legislation seeks to limit total ownership of rural land in Argentina by foreign persons or entities to no more than 20%, with all foreign persons or entities of the same nationality owning not more than 30% of such total. In addition, each foreign holder is limited to a maximum ownership of 1,000 hectares of rural land. The legislation would not affect current landholdings by foreigners or vested property rights. The proposed legislation remains subject to the approval of a majority in the Argentine Congress, as well as constitutional and other legal challenges. If approved, the new legislation may limit and restrict the investments of foreign entities in rural land in Argentina and therefore impair our ability to continue acquiring farmland in Argentina. The enactment of the proposed legislation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of our operations. The lack of financing for Argentine companies may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations in Argentina and on the market price of our common shares. The prospects for Argentine companies accessing financial markets are limited in terms of the amount of the financing available and the conditions and costs of such financing. The default on the Argentine sovereign debt and the global economic crisis have significantly limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets. In addition, in November 2008, the Argentine congress passed a law eliminating the private pension fund system and transferring all retirement and pension funds held by the pension fund administrators (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones, or “AFJPs”) to the National Social Security Administrative Office (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social). Because the AFJPs had been the major institutional investors in the Argentine capital markets, the nationalization of the pension fund system has led to a reduction of the liquidity available in the local Argentine capital markets. As of March 31, 2011, our subsidiaries in Argentina have relied on local Argentine financing for 25% of our total indebtedness. Lack of access to international or domestic financial markets could affect the projected capital expenditures for our operations in Argentina and, therefore, may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations in Argentina and on the market price of our common shares. 26 Table of Contents There are concerns about the accuracy of the INDEC’s measurements. In January 2007, the INDEC modified its methodology used in calculating the consumer price index. At the same time, the Argentine government also replaced several key personnel at the INDEC, prompting complaints of government interference from the technical staff at the INDEC. In addition, the International Monetary Fund requested that the government clarify its inflation rates. In June 2008, the INDEC published a new consumer price index that eliminated nearly half of the items included in previous surveys and introduced adjustable weightings for fruit, vegetables and clothing, which have seasonal cost variations. The new index has been criticized by economists and investors after its initial report found prices rising well below expectations. These events have affected the credibility of the consumer price index published by INDEC, as well as other indices published by INDEC that use the consumer price index in their calculation, including the poverty index, the unemployment index and real GDP. See “Risks Associated with the Countries in which We Operate—Inflation in some of the countries in which we operate, along with governmental measures to combat inflation, may have a significant negative effect on the economies of those countries and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations.” If it is determined that it is necessary to correct the consumer price index and other INDEC indices, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy, which could, in turn, have a materially adverse effect on our ability to access international credit markets at market rates to finance our operations. Government intervention in Argentina may have a direct impact on our prices and sales. The Argentine government has in the past set certain industry market conditions and prices. In March 2002, the Argentine government fixed the price for milk after a conflict among producers and the government. In 2005, the Argentine government adopted measures in order to increase the domestic availability of beef and reduce domestic prices. The export tax rate was increased and a minimum weight requirement for animals to be slaughtered was established. In March 2006, sales of beef products to foreign markets were temporarily suspended until prices decreased. Furthermore, in 2007 the Argentine government significantly increased export tax rates on exports of crops. A number of restrictions are also imposed on the grain and oilseed markets that essentially limit the access of traders to exports, resulting in a disparity between domestic and world prices. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not interfere in other areas by setting prices or regulating other market conditions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to freely negotiate the prices of all our Argentine products in the future or that the prices or other market conditions that the Argentine government might impose will allow us to freely negotiate the prices of our products, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our business. During the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced significant social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. In 2008, Argentina faced nationwide strikes and protests from farmers due to increased export taxes on agricultural products, which disrupted economic activity and have heightened political tensions. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the Argentine economy, and thereby our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Disputes between the Argentine government and the agricultural sector may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our business. In 2008, the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance issued a resolution which applied variable export tariffs (retenciones móviles) to the agricultural sector, thereby increasing the tariffs applicable to such exports. The resolution caused a strong reaction by organizations and individuals related to the agricultural sector, who considered the increase a direct confiscation of their private property. This reaction was publicly evidenced by large-scale demonstrations all over the country, resulting in the largest agricultural strike in Argentina’s history, which included road blocks by strikers to prevent traffic of any freight related to agricultural production. As a consequence, markets reacted adversely, causing a recession in local demand and a disruption in the local financial markets. After a serious institutional crisis between the Argentine congress and the executive branch, the Argentine government issued decrees limiting the effectiveness of the original resolution. However, we cannot assure you that the government’s dispute with the agricultural sector will not resume or whether a similar reaction or conflict with the same sector will not arise. Although, to date, the dispute has not materially affected us, we cannot assure you that a similar dispute will not arise and, if it were to arise, that it will not have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our operating costs. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees and may do so again in the future. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, employers both in the public and private sectors have experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. Due to the high levels of inflation, the employees and labor organizations have begun again demanding significant wage increases. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. Any such measures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in export duties and controls may have an adverse impact on our sales. Since 2002, the Argentine government has imposed duties on the exports of various primary and manufactured products, including some of our products. During the last eight years, such export taxes have undergone significant increases, reaching a maximum of 35%. We cannot assure you that there will not be further increases in the export taxes or that other new export taxes or quotas will not be imposed. Imposition of new export taxes or quotas or a significant increase in existing export taxes or the application of export quotas could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Exchange controls could restrict the inflow and outflow of funds in Argentina. In 2001 and 2002, the Argentine government implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks and stringent restrictions on the outflow of foreign currency from Argentina, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt and distributing dividends. Although most of these restrictions have been eased in some respects, some restrictions on transfer of funds from Argentina (e.g., to make payments of principal and interest) still remain in effect, and other controls on capital inflows have been established. Further, similar or new restrictions relating to the purchase of foreign currency and its transfer abroad for the payment of dividends, which were abolished in 2003, could be reinstated in the future and, if that were to occur, we may default in the payment of external debt obligations from Argentina, we may not be able to fund and/or finance our operations in Argentina, or we may not be able to distribute dividends from Argentina. This could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations, or the market price of our common shares. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Brazil Brazilian economic and political conditions and perceptions of these conditions in international markets have a direct impact on our business and our access to international capital and debt markets and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our operations, properties and customers are located in Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on economic conditions in Brazil. The Brazilian economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. Brazil’s GDP, in real terms, grew by 6.1% in 2007, 5.1% in 2008, decreased 0.2% in 2009 and increased by 7.5% in 2010. We cannot assure you that GDP will increase or remain stable in the future. Future developments in the Brazilian economy may affect Brazil’s growth rates and, consequently, the consumption of sugar, ethanol, and our other products. As a result, these developments could impair our business strategies, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, Brazil’s political situation has influenced the performance of the Brazilian economy, and political crises have affected the confidence of investors and the general public, which has resulted in economic deceleration and heightened volatility in the securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. Future developments in policies of the Brazilian government and/or the uncertainty of whether and when such policies and regulations may be implemented, all of which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may increase our tax burden. The Brazilian government frequently implements changes to the Brazilian tax regime that may affect us and our customers. These changes include changes in prevailing tax rates and, occasionally, imposition of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated government purposes. Some of these changes may result in increases in our tax payments, which could adversely affect industry profitability and increase the prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets and cause our financial results to suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our projected cash flow and profitability following any increases in Brazilian taxes applicable to us and our operations. Widespread corruption and fraud relating to ownership of real estate may adversely affect our business, especially our land transformation business. Under Brazilian Legislation, real property ownership is normally transferred by means of a transfer deed, and subsequently registered at the appropriate Real Estate Registry Office under the corresponding real property record. There are uncertainties, corruption and fraud relating to title ownership of real estate in Brazil, mostly in rural areas. In certain cases, the Real Estate Registry Office may register deeds with errors, including duplicate and/or fraudulent entries, and, therefore, deed challenges frequently occur, leading to judicial actions. Property disputes over title ownership are frequent in Brazil, and, as a result, there is a risk that errors, fraud or challenges could adversely affect us. Social movements and the possibility of expropriation may affect the normal use of, damage, or deprive us of the use of or fair value of, our properties. Social movements, such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra and Comissão Pastoral da Terra, are active in Brazil and advocate land reform and mandatory property redistribution by the federal government. Land invasions and occupations of rural areas by a large number of individuals is common practice for these movements, and, in certain areas, including those in which we have invested or are likely to invest, police protection and effective eviction proceedings are not available to land owners.As a result, we cannot assure you that our properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these groups. In addition, our land may be subject to expropriation by the federal government. Under the Brazilian legal system, the federal government may expropriate land that is not in compliance with mandated local 29 Table of Contents “social functions” for purposes of land reform. “Social function” is described in the Brazilian Constitution as rational and adequate exploitation of land, adequate use of natural resources available and preservation of the environment, compliance with labor laws, and exploitation of land to promote welfare of owners and employees. If the Brazilian government decides to expropriate any of our properties, our results of operations may be adversely affected, to the extent that potential compensation to be paid by the federal government may be less than the profit we could make from the sale or use of such land. Disputing the federal government’s expropriation of land is usually time-consuming and the outcomes at such challenges are uncertain. In addition, we may be forced to accept public debt bonds, which have limited liquidity, as compensation for expropriated land instead of cash. A land invasion or occupation also could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or the value of our common shares. Recent changes in Brazilian rules concerning foreign investment in rural properties may adversely affect our investments. Brazilian federal law establishes certain restrictions on the acquisition of rural property by foreigners, including that (i) foreign investors may only acquire rural properties in which agricultural, cattle-raising, industrial or colonization projects are going to be developed as approved by the relevant authorities; (ii) the total rural area to be acquired by a foreign investor cannot exceed one quarter of the surface of the municipality in which it is located, and foreigners with the same nationality may not own, cumulatively, more than 10% of the surface of the municipality in which it is located; and (iii) the acquisition or possession (or any in rem right) by a foreigner of rural property situated in an area considered important to national security must be previously approved by the General Office of the National Security Council (Conselho de Defesa Nacional). The restrictions mentioned in items (i) and (ii) above are also applicable for rural lease agreements executed by foreigners. In addition, the acquisition or lease by a foreigner of a rural property exceeding 100 módulos de exploração indefinida (“MEI,” a measurement unit defined by the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agraria, or “INCRA”) in hectares for each region of the country) must be previously approved by the Brazilian National Congress. Brazilian federal law enacted in 1971 also establishes that the same restrictions apply to Brazilian companies that are controlled by foreign investors. Any acquisition of rural property by foreigners in violation of these terms would be considered null and void under Brazilian law. However, the Brazilian Constitution enacted in 1988 and its amendments, in particular Constitutional Amendment No. 6, of August 15, 1995, set forth that (i) no restrictions on the acquisition of rural land in Brazil should apply to Brazilian companies; and (ii) any company incorporated and headquartered in Brazil and controlled by foreign investors must receive the same treatment as any other company incorporated and headquartered in Brazil and controlled by Brazilian investors. Since the enactment of the Brazilian Constitution in 1988, the interpretation had been that the restrictions imposed by federal law on the acquisition or lease of rural property above-mentioned did not apply to Brazilian companies controlled by foreigners, pursuant to the legal opinion issued by the Federal General Attorney’s Office (the “AGU”) in 1994, which was ratified in 1998. However, the Brazilian Justice National Council issued an Official Letter on July 13, 2010 addressed to all the Brazilian local State Internal Affairs Bureaus in order for them to adopt procedures within 60 days and instruct the local State Notary and Real Estate Registry Offices to observe the restrictions of the Brazilian law on the acquisitions of rural land by Brazilian companies with foreign equity holders. Thereafter, on August 19, 2010, the AGU revised its prior opinion, and published a new opinion confirming that Brazilian entities controlled by foreigners should be subject to the restrictions described above, and the transactions entered into by foreigners in connection with rural properties shall be subject to the analysis and approval from INCRA, the Ministry of Agrarian Development and the Brazilian National Congress, when applicable. This revised opinion was ratified by the President of Brazil and published in the Official Gazette of the Federal Executive on August 23, 2010, becoming binding as of such date. We therefore believe that the acquisitions of rural properties by Brazilian companies controlled by foreigners registered in the appropriate real estate registry prior to August 23, 2010 will not be affected by this binding opinion. However, going forward, the acquisition and leasing of rural land in Brazil,including through corporate transactions, will be subject to the above-mentioned restrictions, and will require several additional layers of review and approvals which may be discretionary (including the approvals from INCRA, Ministry of Agrarian Development and the Brazilian National Congress, when applicable), 30 Table of Contents burdensome and time consuming. While we conduct our operations in Brazil through local subsidiaries, we would be considered a foreign controlled entity within the meaning of the restrictions articulated above. Therefore, if we are not able to comply with these restrictions and obtain the required approvals in connection with future acquisitions, our business plan, contemplated expansion in Brazil and results of operations will be adversely affected. Furthermore, there is currently proposed legislation under analysis in the Brazilian National Congress regarding the acquisition of rural land by Brazilian companies controlled by foreign holders, which if approved may further limit and restrict the investments of companies with foreign equity capital in rural land in Brazil. Such further restrictions may place more strain on our ability to expand our operations in Brazil. The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on exports and imports. We may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations involving or affecting factors such as: • interest rates; • monetary policy; • limitation on ownership of rural land by foreigners; • exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad; • currency fluctuations; • inflation; • the liquidity of domestic capital and financial markets; • tax policy; and • other political, social and economic policies or developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government will implement changes in policy or regulations affecting these or other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and securities issued abroad that are supported by Brazilian issuers. As a result, these uncertainties and other future developments in the Brazilian economy may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the price of our common shares. Our business in Brazil is subject to governmental regulation. Our Brazilian operations are subject to a variety of national, state, and local laws and regulations, including environmental, agricultural, health and safety and labor laws. We invest financial and managerial resources to comply with these laws and related permit requirements. Our failure to do so could subject us to fines or penalties, enforcement actions, claims for personal injury or property damages, or obligations to investigate and/or remediate damage or injury. Moreover, if applicable laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, our capital or operating costs could increase beyond what we currently anticipate, and the process of obtaining or renewing licenses for our activities could be hindered or even opposed by the competent authorities. 31 Table of Contents We are also subject to several laws and regulations, among others, imposed in Brazil by (i) the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustível) and by the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica) (“ANEEL”) due to our production of sugarcane and ethanol and (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture, Breeding Cattle and Supply (Ministerio da Agricultura, Pecuaria e Abastecimento), due to our agricultural, sugarcane and ethanol production activities. If an adverse final decision is issued in an administrative process, we could be exposed to penalties and sanctions derived from the violation of any of these laws and regulations, including the payment of fines, and, depending on the level of severity applied to the infraction, the closure of facilities and/or stoppage of activities and the cancellation or suspension of the registrations, authorizations and licenses, which may also result in temporary interruption or discontinuity of activities in our plants, and adversely affect our business, financial status, and operating results. Government laws and regulations in Brazil governing the burning of sugarcane could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial performance. In Brazil, approximately 54% of sugarcane is currently harvested by burning the crop, which removes leaves in addition to eliminating insects and other pests. The state of São Paulo and some local governments have established laws and regulations that limit and/or entirely prohibit the burning of sugarcane and there is a likelihood that increasingly stringent regulations will be imposed by the state of São Paulo and other governmental agencies in the near future. We currently make significant investments to comply with these laws and regulations. Although our plans for the implementation of mechanized harvesting are underway, with 80% of our sugarcane harvest mechanized during the 2009-2010 harvest, the strengthening of these laws and regulations or the total prohibition of sugarcane burning would require us to increase our planned investment in harvesting equipment, which, in turn, would limit our ability to fund other investments. In addition, the state of São Paulo has imposed an obligation on growers to dedicate a certain percentage of land used for sugarcane cultivation for native or reclaimed forest area. The cost of setting aside this land is difficult to predict and may increase costs for us or our sugarcane suppliers. As a result, the costs to comply with existing or new laws or regulations are likely to increase, and, in turn, our ability to operate our plants and harvest our sugarcane crops may be adversely affected. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to legal and administrative actions. These actions can result in civil or criminal penalties, including a requirement to pay penalties or fines, which may range from US$5 to US$50 million and can be doubled or tripled in case of recidivism, an obligation to make capital and other expenditures or an obligation to materially change or cease some operations. Risks Related to a Luxembourg Company We are a Luxembourg corporation (“société anonyme”) and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our executive officers and directors in the United States. We are organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Most of our assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, most of our directors and officers and the experts named in this annual report reside outside the United States, and most of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, you may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. Luxembourg law, furthermore, does not recognize a shareholder’s right to bring a derivative action on behalf of the company. As there is no treaty in force on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, courts in Luxembourg will not automatically recognize and enforce a final judgment 32 Table of Contents rendered by a U.S. court. The enforceability in Luxembourg courts of judgments entered by U.S. courts will be subject prior any enforcement in Luxembourg to the procedure and the conditions set forth in the Luxembourg procedural code in its article 678, which conditions may include the following conditions: • the judgment of the U.S. court is enforceable (exécutoire) in the United States; • the U.S. court had jurisdiction over the subject matter leading to the judgment (that is, its jurisdiction was established in compliance both with Luxembourg private international law rules and with the applicable domestic U.S. federal or state jurisdictional rules); • the U.S. court has applied to the dispute the substantive law which would have been applied by Luxembourg courts; • the judgment was granted following proceedings where the counterparty had the opportunity to appear, and if it appeared, to present a defense; • the U.S. court has acted in accordance with its own procedural laws; and • the judgment of the U.S. court does not contravene Luxembourg international public policy. Under our articles of incorporation, we indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Under our articles of incorporation, to the extent allowed or required by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and company employees and any current or former shareholder will be governed exclusively by the laws of Luxembourg and subject to the jurisdiction of the Luxembourg courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities as such. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside Luxembourg more difficult to enforce against our assets in Luxembourg or jurisdictions that would apply Luxembourg law. You may have more difficulty protecting your interests than you would as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing joint stock companies organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg as well as such other applicable local law, rules and regulations. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our directors and officers under Luxembourg law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg regulations governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters may not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Therefore, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in connection with actions taken by our directors and officers or our principal shareholders than you would as a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in the United States. You may not be able to participate in equity offerings, and you may not receive any value for rights that we may grant. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. However, under our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until the fifth anniversary of the publication of the authorization granted to the board in respect of such waiver by the general meeting of shareholders. 33 Table of Contents 