Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors address the material risks and uncertainties concerning our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. If any of the risks discussed in this report were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operation and our ability to service our debt could be materially and adversely affected. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition—Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations Our business is dependent upon our tenants successfully operating their businesses and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully and profitably operate our business. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties we own in a manner which generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties in a manner so as not to jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants to fulfill their obligations under our leases may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations, including any other SNFs or other properties or businesses they may acquire or operate. Cash flow generated by certain individual properties have not in the past been, and currently are not, sufficient for a tenant to meet its obligations to us. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness could be limited if any of our major tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or failed to renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire, or if we were unable to lease or release our properties on economically favorable terms. While we have generally been successful in the past in transitioning properties from one tenant to another where properties are underperforming, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify and successfully transition underperforming properties going forward. In addition, from time to time we may recognize deferred rent write-offs in connection with transitioning properties. These adverse developments could arise due to a number of factors, including those described in the risk factors below, including those under the heading “—Risks Relating to Our Tenants and the Skilled Nursing Facility Industry.” We are subject to risks associated with debt financing, which could negatively impact our business and our ability to repay maturing debt. Financing for future investments and our maturing commitments may be provided by borrowings under our credit facilities, private or public offerings of debt, the assumption of secured indebtedness, mortgage financing on a portion of our owned portfolio or through joint ventures. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risks that our cash flow will be insufficient to make timely payments of interest, that we will be unable to refinance existing indebtedness or support collateral obligations and that the terms of refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates, changes in our debt ratings or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase, which could reduce our profitability. Moreover, additional debt financing increases the amount of our leverage, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our results of operations or the economy generally. We have substantial indebtedness and have the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness. We have substantial indebtedness and we may increase our indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $600.5 million outstanding, including $300.0 million of indebtedness with respect to our Senior Notes due 2019 (excluding $2.6 million of net debt premium balance related to the Notes), $284.2 million of indebtedness with respect to our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line and our 2014 Revolver and $13.8 million of other indebtedness with respect to two acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • limit our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business; • increase our cost of borrowing; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business; • require us to pledge as collateral substantially all of our assets; • require us to maintain certain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility; • limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; 13 Table of Contents • limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, which may cause us to become subject to federal corporate income tax on any income that we do not distribute; • expose us to fluctuations in interest rates, to the extent our borrowings bear variable rates of interests; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a potential competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, we have the ability to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt. If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our future financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver, our 2016 Revolver or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments on our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs, including making distributions and dividends to maintain our REIT status. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver, our 2016 Revolver and our Senior Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In particular, our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver and our 2016 Revolver will mature prior to the maturity of our Senior Notes. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver, our 2016 Revolver and the indenture governing our Senior Notes restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. In addition, although the indenture governing our Senior Notes limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, this limitation is subject to a number of significant exceptions and the amount of additional indebtedness incurred could nevertheless be substantial. Furthermore, the indenture governing our Senior Notes does not impose any limitation on our ability to incur liabilities that are not considered indebtedness under such indenture. Covenants in our debt agreements will restrict our activities and could adversely affect our business. Our debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including: • Incurring additional secured and unsecured debt; • Paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing the capital stock of Aviv REIT; • Making investments or other restricted payments; • Entering into transactions with affiliates; • Issuing stock of or interests in restricted subsidiaries; • Engaging in non-healthcare related business activities; • Creating restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us; • Selling assets; or • Effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver and our 2016 Revolver require us to maintain specified financial covenants, which include a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as well as satisfy other financial condition tests. The indenture governing our Senior Notes due 2019 requires us to maintain Total Unencumbered Assets (as defined therein) of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. 14 Table of Contents A rise in interest rates may impact our future debt costs. As of December 31, 2011, we had availability to borrow $100.0 million under our Acquisition Credit Line and $25.0 million under our 2014 Revolver (which, subject to certain conditions precedent, can be increased by an additional $75.0 million). In addition, in January 2012 we closed an additional revolving credit line which gives us the availability to borrow up to $187.5 million (which, subject to certain conditions precedent, can be increased by an additional $87.5 million). Any amounts borrowed under the facilities accrue interest at variable rates. Because we may incur a significant amount of indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate, we may be exposed to market risks relating to changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates could impact the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which would reduce or available cash and impact our ability to finance future investments and meet maturing commitments. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. Certain tenants account for a significant percentage of our rental income, and the failure of any of these tenants to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our rental income and net income. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 15.8% of our annualized rent under existing leases was from Saber, which operated 25 of our properties in Florida, Massachusetts, Ohio and Pennsylvania, approximately 10.9% of our annualized total rent under existing leases was from Evergreen, which operated 17 of our properties in California, Montana, Nevada, Oregon and Washington, and approximately 10.0% of our annualized total rent under existing leases was from Daybreak, which operated 32 of our properties in Texas. No other tenant generated more than 8.2% of our annualized total rent under existing leases for the year ended December 31, 2011. The failure or inability of any of these tenants, or of other tenants that account for a significant percentage of our rental income, to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our rental income and net income, which could in turn materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. The geographic concentration of our properties could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory or reimbursement changes or acts of nature in those areas, resulting in a decrease in our revenues or otherwise negatively impacting our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the three states from which we derived the largest amount of annualized rent under existing leases were California (16.9%), Texas (13.4%) and Ohio (8.7%). As a result of these concentrations, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to Medicaid, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for long-term care services in these states could have an adverse impact on our tenants’ revenues, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our portfolio currently consists predominantly of SNFs; any significant cost increases, reductions in reimbursement rates or other regulatory changes could negatively affect our tenants’ businesses and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our portfolio is predominately comprised of SNFs. As a result of our focus on SNFs, any changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, or any other changes negatively affecting SNFs, could have an adverse impact on our tenants’ revenues, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In particular, CMS’ final rule regarding 2012 Medicare payment rates for SNF became effective on October 1, 2011 and is expected to reduce reimbursement rates on SNFs by approximately 11.1% on a system-wide basis for the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year 2012. Although we are unable to predict the extent of the final rule’s impact on our SNF tenants, we expect that the final rule will have an adverse impact on the business and financial results of our SNF tenants, which may adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations if our SNF tenants are not able to timely make their rental payments. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations and may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. Accordingly, we may often be engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities, regardless of whether the contemplated transactions are completed, and in combining our operations in the event that any such transactions are completed. Our ability to acquire properties successfully may be constrained by the following significant risks: • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price for a property we acquire, which could reduce our growth prospects; • unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions; and failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all. 15 Table of Contents If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness may be materially and adversely affected. The fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income annually in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further acquisitions might be limited or curtailed. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to begin reporting on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that we will not identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell properties in our portfolio is limited. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. In addition, our properties are special purpose properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Transfers of operations of SNFs and other healthcare properties are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. To the extent we are unable to sell any properties for our book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. We may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our tenants’ insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial position and our cash flow. Under the terms of our leases, our tenants are required to maintain comprehensive general liability, fire, flood, earthquake, boiler and machinery, nursing home or long-term care professional liability and extended coverage insurance with respect to our properties with policy specifications, limits and deductibles set forth in the leases or other written agreements between us and the tenant. However, our properties may be adversely affected by casualty losses which exceed insurance coverages and reserves. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, the property. Even if it were practicable to restore the property to its condition prior to the damage caused by a major casualty, the operations of the affected property would likely be suspended for a considerable period of time. In the event of any substantial loss affecting a property, disputes over insurance claims could arise. As an owner of real property, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real property, such as us, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal, remediation or release of hazardous or toxic substances (including materials containing asbestos) at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons or adjacent property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances, and liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of a tenant at the property. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner’s liability therefore could exceed the value of the property and/or the assets of the owner. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to attract additional residents, our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. 16 Table of Contents Although our leases require the tenant to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be limited. For instance, some of our leases do not require the tenant to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before the tenant took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure you that any such tenant would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were to be liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our tenants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon our key employees and our failure to retain or attract sufficient numbers of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team and other employees. As of December 31, 2011, we had 24 full-time employees and six part-time employees and, as a result, the loss of even a small number of our employees may have an adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract, hire and train skilled management and other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Consequently, we may not be successful in retaining, attracting, hiring and training the people we need, which would seriously impede our ability to implement our business strategy. Craig M. Bernfield has significant influence over our board of directors. Pursuant to a Stockholders Agreement entered into by Aviv REIT, Inc., an affiliate of Lindsay Goldberg, LLC, a representative of certain limited partners related to the family of Zev Karkomi and an entity formed by Craig M. Bernfield, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, a total of eleven votes are to be cast at all meetings of Aviv REIT’s board of directors. Subject to certain exceptions, Class B directors, who are designated by Mr. Bernfield, are entitled to cast a total of six such votes. As a result, subject to certain exceptions, Mr. Bernfield has the ability to effectively control many of our decisions and substantially influence our business, policies, affairs and matters requiring the approval of our board of directors, including the determination of the outcome of many significant corporate transactions. Risks Relating to Our Tenants and the Skilled Nursing Facility Industry Our tenants’ failure to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing laws. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and regulations cannot be predicted. We have no direct control over our tenants’ ability to meet the numerous federal, state and local regulatory requirements. The failure of any of our tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In particular: • Licensing and Certification. Our tenants and facilities are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities and are periodically surveyed by them to confirm compliance. Failure to obtain licensure or loss or suspension of licensure or certification may prevent a facility from operating or result in a suspension of reimbursement payments until all licensure or certification issues have been resolved and the necessary licenses or certification are obtained or reinstated. In addition, some states require that SNFs obtain governmental approval, in the form of a Certificate of Need, or CON, or similar certification, that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services or certain capital expenditures. The CON laws and regulations may restrict our ability to add new facilities or expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain our ability to lease a particular property to a new tenant. • Medicare and Medicaid Certification. A significant portion of the revenues of our tenants that operate SNFs is derived from participation in government-funded reimbursement programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, and failure to maintain certification to participate in these programs could result in a loss of funding from such programs. Loss of certification could cause the revenues of our tenants to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations. There are various highly complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referrals, financial relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including criminal provisions that prohibit financial inducements for referrals, filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare and Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Violations of these laws subject persons and entities to termination from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs or result in the imposition of treble damages and fines or other penalties, which may affect that tenant’s ability to meet its obligations to us or to continue operating the facility. 17 Table of Contents • Other Laws. Other laws that impact how our tenants conduct their operations include: federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality and security of patient health information; state and local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws generally affecting our tenants’ management of property and equipment and how our tenants generally conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety, and environmental laws; federal and state laws affecting assisted living facilities mandating quality of services and care, and quality of food service; resident rights (including abuse and neglect laws); and health standards set by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We cannot predict the effect additional costs to comply with these laws may have on the expenses of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Legislative and Regulatory Developments. Because all of our properties are used as healthcare properties, we will be impacted by the risks associated with the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform. While the expansion of healthcare coverage may result in some additional demand for services provided by tenants, reimbursement levels may be lower than the costs required to provide such services, which could materially adversely affect the ability of tenants to generate profits and pay rent under their lease agreements with us and thereby could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. Regulatory proposals and rules are released on an ongoing basis that may have an impact on the healthcare system in general and the skilled nursing and long-term care industries in particular. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our tenants depend on reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced, which could cause our tenants’ revenues to decline and affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The ability of our tenants to generate revenue and profit influences the underlying value of our properties. Revenues of our tenants are generally derived from payments for patient care. Sources of such payments for SNFs include Medicare, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers and the patients themselves. Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as numerous private insurance and managed care plans, generally require participating providers to accept government-determined reimbursement levels as payment in full for services rendered, without regard to a facility’s charges. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements for services provided by our tenants, have in the past and could in the future result in a substantial reduction in our tenants’ revenues. Additionally, revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable or because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. There also continue to be new legislative and regulatory proposals that could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. Moreover, healthcare facilities continue to experience pressures from private payors attempting to control healthcare costs, and reimbursement from private payors has in many cases effectively been reduced to levels approaching those of government payors. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by our tenants. Further limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause the revenues of our tenants to decline and which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement. A number of states are currently managing budget deficits, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates for our tenants with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under their state Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in Medicaid due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement to our tenants under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Potential reductions in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement to our tenants could reduce the cash flow of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us. 18 Table of Contents Our tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our tenants may be subject to claims that their services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. The insurance coverage maintained by our tenants, whether through commercial insurance or self-insurance, may not cover all claims made against them or continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to our tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, our tenants operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. From time to time, there may also be increases in government investigations of long-term care providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as increases in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or government investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could lead to potential termination from government programs, large penalties and fines and otherwise have a material adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which could result in its bankruptcy or insolvency or have a material adverse effect on the tenant’s business and its ability to meet its obligations to us. Moreover, advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities have sued healthcare facility operators and called upon state and federal legislators to enhance their oversight of trends in healthcare facility ownership and quality of care. Patients have also sued healthcare facility operators and have, in certain cases, succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. This litigation and potential litigation in the future has materially increased the costs incurred by our tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of medical malpractice and liability insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Increased costs could limit our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. To the extent we are required to remove or replace a tenant, our revenue from the affected property could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants could delay or prevent our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants. We receive substantially all of our income as rent payments under leases of our properties. We have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants’ businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our tenants may fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant failures to make rent payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of the leases, we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, operate the property or sell the property. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease a property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, find another tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us. If any lease expires or is terminated, we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that property until it is released or sold. If we experience a significant number of un-leased properties, our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the leases and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs. If one or more of our tenants files for bankruptcy relief, the U.S. federal Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time. However, our leases with tenants that lease more than one of our properties are generally made pursuant to a single master lease covering all of that tenant’s properties leased from us, or are cross-defaulted with other leases, and consequently there is uncertainty about how such arrangements may be treated in a bankruptcy. It is possible that in bankruptcy the debtor- tenant may be required to assume or reject the master lease or cross-defaulted leases as a whole, rather than making the decision on a property-by-property basis, thereby preventing the debtor-tenant from assuming the better performing properties and terminating the master lease or cross-defaulted leases with respect to the poorer performing properties. The 19 Table of Contents U.S. federal Bankruptcy Code generally requires that a debtor must assume or reject a contract in its entirety. Thus, under this scenario, a debtor could not choose to keep the beneficial provisions of a contract while rejecting the burdensome ones; the contract must be assumed or rejected as a whole. However, where under applicable state law a contract (even though it is contained in a single document) is determined to be divisible or severable into different agreements, or similarly, where a collection of documents is determined to constitute separate agreements instead of a single, integrated contract, then in those circumstances a debtor/trustee may be allowed to assume some of the divisible or separate agreements while rejecting the others. Risks Relating to Our Tax Status and Other Tax Related Matters Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Aviv REIT intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Aviv REIT made the election to be taxed as a REIT effective as of its taxable year ending December 31, 2010. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements contained herein are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we fail to qualify or lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements on a continuing basis, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, sources of our gross income and stockholder ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business, raise capital and make payments on our indebtedness. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for the payment of our debt obligations. In addition, we may use taxable REIT subsidiaries to undertake indirectly activities that the REIT rules might otherwise preclude us from doing directly or through pass-through subsidiaries. Such taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. The terms of the indenture governing our Senior Notes due 2019, our Term Loan, our Acquisition Credit Line, our 2014 Revolver and our 2016 Revolver restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets generally does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test, if certain 20 Table of Contents requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity. The U.S. federal income tax rules that affect REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity. We have limited experience operating as a REIT and therefore may have difficulty in successfully and profitably operating our business in compliance with the regulatory requirements applicable to REITs. Aviv REIT was formed on July 30, 2010, and we have limited experience operating as a REIT and complying with the numerous technical restrictions and limitations set forth in the Code, as applicable to REITs. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully operate as a REIT or comply with regulatory requirements applicable to REITs, and you should be especially cautious in drawing conclusions about the ability of our management team to operate our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 