D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the information contained in this annual report, particularly the risks described below, as well as in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Our business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The market price of our common shares may decrease due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Related to Our Business and Industries Unpredictable weather conditions, pest infestations and diseases may have an adverse impact on agricultural production and may reduce the volume and sucrose content of sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase in a given harvest. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions, especially droughts, hail, floods or frost or diseases are unpredictable and may have a potentially devastating impact on agricultural production and may otherwise adversely affect the supply and price of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business. Adverse weather conditions may be exacerbated by the effects of climate change. The effects of severe adverse weather conditions may reduce yields of our agricultural activities. Additionally, higher than average temperatures and rainfall can contribute to an increased presence of insects. Commencing during the middle of 2008 and lasting until the middle of 2009, the areas in which we operate suffered one of the worst droughts of the last 50 to 70 years, which resulted in a reduction of approximately 15% to 40% of our agricultural production per hectare, depending on the affected commodity, compared with our historical averages. We experienced drought conditions during the first half of 2013 in the countries where we operate, which resulted in a reduction of approximately 21% to 31% in our yields for the 2012/2013 harvest, for corn and soybean, compared with our historical averages. The actual yields following the drought generated a decrease in Initial Recognition and Changes in Fair Value of Biological Assets and Agricultural Produce in respect of corn, soybean and the remaining crops of $5.9 million, $16.6 million and $2.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013. See “ See Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Trends and Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations - (i) Effects of Yield Fluctuations The occurrence and effects of disease and plagues can be unpredictable and devastating to agricultural products, potentially rendering all or a substantial portion of the affected harvests unsuitable for sale. Our agricultural products are also susceptible to fungus and bacteria that are associated with excessively moist conditions. Even when only a portion of the production is damaged, our results of operations could be adversely affected because all or a substantial portion of the production costs have been incurred. Although some diseases are treatable, the cost of treatment is high, and we cannot assure you that such events in the future will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, if we fail to control a given plague or disease and our production is threatened, we may be unable to supply our main customers, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by growers located in the vicinity of our mills. Both sugarcane yields and sucrose content depend primarily on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature, which vary. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries. Future weather patterns may reduce the amount of sugarcane that we can harvest or purchase, or the sucrose content in such sugarcane, and, consequently, the amount of sugar we can recover in any given harvest. Any reduction in the volume of sugar recovered could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents As a result, we cannot assure you that future severe adverse weather conditions or pest infestations will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuation in market prices for our products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for agricultural products and by-products, including, among others, sugar, ethanol, and grains, like those of other commodities, have historically been cyclical and sensitive to domestic and international changes in supply and demand and can be expected to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the agricultural products and by-products we produce are traded on commodities and futures exchanges and thus are subject to speculative trading, which may adversely affect us. The prices that we are able to obtain for our agricultural products and by-products depend on many factors beyond our control including: • prevailing world commodity prices, which historically have been subject to significant fluctuations over relatively short periods of time, depending on worldwide demand and supply; • changes in the agricultural subsidy levels of certain important producers (mainly the U.S. and the European Union (“E.U.”) and the adoption of other government policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; • changes to trade barriers of certain important consumer markets (including China, India, the U.S. and the E.U.) and the adoption of other governmental policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; • changes in government policies for biofuels; • world inventory levels, i.e., the supply of commodities carried over from year to year; • climatic conditions and natural disasters in areas where agricultural products are cultivated; • the production capacity of our competitors; and • demand for and supply of competing commodities and substitutes. For example, we reported a $71 million loss in 2013 compared to a $23 million loss for 2012 for our sugarcane business segment in the line item “Initial recognition and Changes in Fair Value of Biological Assets and Agricultural Produce”. This loss was generated mainly by a decrease in price estimates used in the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model to determine the fair value of our sugarcane plantations. In the DCF model, the price of future harvested sugarcane is calculated based on estimates of sugar price derived from the No. 11 futures contract (“NY11”) quoted on the ICE-NY. Sugar price estimates decreased due to lower sugar market prices. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to year ended December 31, 2012. Further, because we intentionally do not hedge 100% of the price risk on our agricultural products, we are unable to have minimum price guarantees for all of our production and are, therefore, exposed to risks associated with the prices of agricultural products and their volatility. We are subject to fluctuations in prices of agricultural products that could result in our receiving lower prices for our agricultural products than our production costs. In addition, there is a strong relationship between the value of our land holdings and market prices of the commodities we produce, which are affected by global economic conditions. A decline in the prices of grains, sugar, ethanol, or related by-products below their current levels for a sustained period of time could significantly reduce the value of our land holdings and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Ethanol prices are correlated to the price of sugar and are becoming closely correlated to the price of oil, so that a decline in the price of sugar will adversely affect both our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in the price of oil may adversely affect our ethanol business. A vast majority of ethanol in Brazil is produced at sugarcane mills that produce both ethanol and sugar. Because sugarcane millers are able to alter their product mix in response to the relative prices of ethanol and sugar, this results in the prices of both products being directly correlated, and the correlation between ethanol and sugar may increase over time. In addition, sugar prices in Brazil are determined by prices in the world market, so that there is a strong correlation between Brazilian ethanol prices and world sugar prices. Because flex-fuel vehicles, which have become popular in Brazil, allow consumers to choose between gasoline and ethanol at the pump rather than in the showroom, ethanol prices are now becoming increasingly correlated to gasoline prices and, consequently, oil prices. We believe that the correlation among the three products will increase over time. Accordingly, a decline in sugar prices would have an adverse effect on the financial performance of our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in oil prices might have an adverse effect on our ethanol business. The expansion of our business through acquisitions poses risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. As part of our business strategy, we have grown through acquisitions. We plan to continue growing by acquiring other farms and production facilities throughout South America. We believe that the agricultural industry and agricultural activity in the region are highly fragmented and that our future consolidation opportunities will continue to be significant to our growth. However, our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or strategic alliances will occur, or the likelihood of a certain transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. In addition, we are unable to predict the effect that changes in Argentine or Brazilian legislation regarding foreign ownership of rural properties could have in our business. See “—Risks Related to Argentina— Argentine law concerning foreign ownership of rural properties may adversely affect our results of operations and future investments in rural properties in Argentina” and “—Risks Related to Brazil— Recent changes in Brazilian rules concerning foreign investment in rural properties may adversely affect our investments.” Our ability to continue to expand our business successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions or access capital markets at an acceptable cost and negotiate favorable transaction terms. Even if we are able to identify acquisition targets and obtain the necessary financing to make these acquisitions, we could financially overextend ourselves, especially if an acquisition is followed by a period of lower than projected prices for our products. Acquisitions also expose us to the risk of successor liability relating to actions involving an acquired company, its management or contingent liabilities incurred before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Any material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. To support the acquisitions we hope to make, we may need to implement new or upgraded strategies, systems, procedures and controls for our operations and will face risks, including diversion of management time and focus and challenges associated with integrating new managers and employees. Our failure to integrate new businesses successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Adverse conditions may create delays in or the suspension of the construction of our Ivinhema mill and/or significantly increase the amount of our expected investments. As part of our strategy to increase our production and increase our competitiveness through economies of scale, we are in the process of constructing the second phase of the Ivinhema mill, which will increase nominal crushing capacity to 5.0 million tons per year. The second phase of Ivinhema is expected to commence commercial operations during the second quarter of 2015. See “