D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report before making a decision to invest in our units. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with nominal assets and no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to commence operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities. Because we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more businesses. We do not have any specific merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business transaction under consideration and we have neither identified nor been provided with the identity of any potential targets. We have not conducted any discussions and we have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates and may be unable to complete a business transaction. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business transaction. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, a business transaction will occur. Although we may seek shareholder approval before effecting our initial business transaction, our public shareholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed business transaction in accordance with certain Nasdaq listing rules. We may seek shareholder approval before effecting our initial business transaction regardless of the type of transaction it is, even if the initial business transaction would not ordinarily require shareholder approval under applicable law and regardless as to whether we are subject to the Nasdaq listing rules at such time. Notwithstanding, in accordance with certain Nasdaq listing rules, unless we would be required by law or we decided for other legal or business reasons, we may consummate our initial business transaction without seeking shareholder approval. Accordingly, in such event we may consummate our initial business transaction even if holders of a majority of our public shares do not approve of the business transaction we consummate. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business transaction will be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your ordinary shares from us for cash, unless we seek shareholder approval of the business transaction. At the time of your investment in us, you will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses or assets. Since our board of directors may consummate a business transaction without seeking shareholder approval, public shareholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on the business transaction, unless we seek such shareholder vote. Accordingly, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business transaction may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our shareholders in which we describe our business transaction. In addition, your election to exercise your redemption rights could still be rejected if holders of 92% or more of our public shares elect to exercise their redemption rights, or if, as a condition of the consummation of the business transaction, we are required to meet a certain minimum valuation. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public shareholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of: (i) our consummation of a business transaction, and then only in connection with those ordinary shares that such shareholder properly elected to redeem, subject to the restrictions described in the initial public offering prospectus or (ii) our liquidation. Our initial shareholders will receive funds from the trust account if they purchased ordinary shares in the initial public offering or in the aftermarket and then only upon our liquidation. In no other circumstances will a shareholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. 6 If we are unable to consummate a business transaction, our public shareholders will be forced to wait at least until August 15, 2012 before receiving distributions from our trust account. We have until August 15, 2012 to complete a business transaction. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business transaction prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have properly sought redemption of their public shares. Only after the expiration of the full time period will public shareholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business transaction. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until after such date. We may not be able to consummate a business transaction within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, we have until August 15, 2012 to complete our initial business transaction. If we fail to consummate our initial business transaction within the required time frame, we will, in accordance with our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, dissolve, liquidate and wind up. The foregoing requirements are set forth in our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, and may not be amended prior to our initial business transaction unless we obtain the consent of 66⅔% of our shareholders. If the net proceeds of the initial public offering available to us outside of the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until August 15, 2012, we may be unable to complete a business transaction. The net proceeds of the initial public offering available to us outside of the trust account is $800,000, plus any amounts that we need to pay our income or other tax obligations or that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, which will be funded solely from interest earned on the trust account balance, net of taxes payable on such interest. Our board of directors will review and approve all significant expenditures by the company. We believe that the funds available to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate until August 15, 2012, assuming that a business transaction is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We may request the release of such funds for a number of purposes that may not ultimately lead to a business transaction. For instance, we could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment with respect to a particular proposed business transaction, or enter into a letter of intent pursuant to which we pay for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business or we may be required to forfeit funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise). In any of these cases, or in other situations where we expend the funds available to us outside of the trust account for purposes that do not result in a business transaction, we may not have sufficient remaining funds to continue searching for, or to conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business, in which case we would be forced to obtain alternative financing or liquidate. The current low interest rate environment or a further decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business transaction since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business transaction. Of the net proceeds of the initial public offering, only $800,000 will be available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. Together with this sum, we will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business transaction, as well as to pay any taxes that we may owe. The proceeds held in the trust account will be invested only in U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds that invest solely in such treasury bills. As of June 30, 2011, the interest rates on these types of government securities were in the range of approximately 0% to .001% and interest rates on these types of money market funds were in the range of approximately 0% to .001%. A substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close our initial business transaction. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial shareholders or management team or find another source of funding in order to continue to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our initial shareholders nor our management team is under any obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. 7 The provisions of our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, including those which relate to our pre-business transaction activities, may be amended with the approval of at least 66⅔% of our shareholders. Most blank check companies have had a provision in their charter which prohibited the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business transaction activities, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s shareholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions required approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public shareholders. Our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, provide that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business transaction activities, may be amended if approved by at least 66⅔% of our shareholders. Any solicitations to amend such provisions would be conducted in compliance with all procedural and disclosure requirements in the Cayman Islands and the United States federal securities laws applicable to companies that have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act and are foreign private issuers (to the extent we have retained our FPI status). As a result of the lower 66⅔% threshold, we may be able to amend the provisions of our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, which govern our pre-business transaction behavior more easily that other blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate a business transaction with which you do not agree. In order to effectuate a business transaction, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, or other governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business transaction. In order to effectuate a business transaction, some similarly structured blank check companies have deviated from the disclosure contained in their initial public offering prospectuses in order to consummate their initial business transactions, such as by modifying their charters and governing instruments. While we do not anticipate deviating from the disclosure contained in the initial public offering prospectus, we may do so. Consequently, investors may not receive the same benefits from the initial public offering that they originally anticipated receiving. In such a situation, it is possible that each investor who purchased units in the initial public offering and still held such units upon learning of our deviation from the disclosure contained in the initial public offering prospectus could seek rescission of the purchase of the units he or she acquired in the offering (under which a successful claimant has the right to receive the total amount paid for his or her securities pursuant to an allegedly deficient prospectus, plus interest and less any income earned on the securities, in exchange for surrender of the securities) or bring an action for damages (compensation for loss on an investment caused by alleged material misrepresentations or omissions in the sale of a security). As a foreign private issuer we would not be subject to certain SEC regulations that apply to U.S. issuers. Pursuant to Rule 3b-4 of the Exchange Act, we determined our status as a FPI, although we may voluntarily lose our status as a FPI so that we can avail ourselves of the flexibility provided to U.S. domestic issuers. As a FPI, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: · certain sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; · provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer's equity securities within less than six months). 8 Because of these exemptions, if we remain a foreign private issuer, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. In particular, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Notwithstanding being generally exempt from certain of the rules under the Exchange Act relating to proxy statements, if we conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, the tender offer documents will contain substantially the same financial and other information about the initial business transaction and the redemption rights as is required under the SEC’s proxy rules. If we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and holders of 92% or more of our public shares indicate their intention to exercise their redemption rights, our directors, officers and their affiliates could affect the outcome of the consummation of our business transaction if they elect to purchase shares from shareholders who would otherwise choose to exercise their redemption rights provided we are not subject to the foreign issuer rules. Solely in the event we seek shareholder approval of our business transaction, we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules and we are not subject to the foreign issuer rules, any privately negotiated transaction to purchase ordinary shares from a shareholder who would otherwise redeem their shares for a per share pro-rata portion of the trust account or to vote against the business transaction would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder, although still the record holder of our shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise their redemption rights and to vote in favor of the business transaction. In the event that our officers, directors or their respective affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights or to vote against the business transaction, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their ordinary shares. This will have the effect of reducing the number of shares redeemed, making it more likely that the required shareholder vote needed to approve the business transaction is achieved, and therefore making it more likely that we would be able to consummate our initial business transaction. None of our officers, directors or their respective affiliates or any third parties has agreed to purchase any such shares, and the failure to so agree at the applicable time could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. Moreover, even if our officers, directors and their respective affiliates were to undertake such purchases, such purchases could be subject to limitations under applicable securities laws and regulations, including Regulation M and regulations regarding tender offers. The inability of such persons to effect such purchases could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. If we submit our initial business transaction to our shareholders for approval and we are not subject to the foreign issuer rules, we may use funds in our trust account to purchase, directly or indirectly, shares from holders thereof who have indicated an intention to redeem their shares. Solely if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and we conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction subject to the U.S. domestic issuer rules in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules as a result of the loss of our FPI status, if public shareholders indicate an intention to vote against our initial business transaction and/or seek to exercise their redemption rights, we may privately negotiate arrangements to provide for the purchase of such public shares at the closing of the business transaction using funds held in the trust account. There is no limit as to the amount of funds available for such purpose, other than any amounts in the trust account to be used to fund any redemptions or consummate the business transaction. The purpose of such arrangements, among other reasons, would be to (i) increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirement that less than 92% of the public shares demand to redeem their shares and (ii) increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business transaction. This may result in the consummation of a business transaction that may not otherwise have been possible. Additionally, as a consequence of such purchases: · the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business transaction; 9 · the public ‘‘float’’ of our ordinary shares may be reduced and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, which may make it difficult to continue to meet the quotation, listing or trading requirements of a national securities exchange; · because the shareholders who sell their ordinary shares in a privately negotiated transaction or pursuant to open market transactions, as described above, may receive a per-share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of taxes payable, our remaining shareholders may bear the entire payment of accrued and unpaid taxes. That is, if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction, the redemption price per share payable to public shareholders who elect to have their ordinary shares redeemed will be reduced by a larger percentage of any taxes payable than it would have been in the absence of such privately negotiated or open market transactions, and shareholders who do not elect to have their ordinary shares redeemed and remain our shareholders after the business transaction will bear the economic burden of a larger percentage of the taxes payable; and · the payment of any premium would result in a reduction in book value per share for the remaining shareholders compared to the value received by shareholders that have their ordinary shares purchased by us at a premium. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. Federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and substantially all of our assets will be located outside the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us, our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against us, our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, the Companies Law (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) or the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of some of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not necessarily binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and certain states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholders derivative action in a Federal court of the United States. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United Sates, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize a foreign judgment as the basis for a claim at common law in the Cayman Islands provided such judgment: · is given by a competent foreign court; · imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; · is final; · is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and 10 · was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business transaction, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with a business transaction, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from the Cayman Islands to another jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of our business will likely subject us to foreign regulation. Shareholders who receive a liquidation distribution from us could be required to return a portion or all of the liquidation distribution to satisfy the claims of creditors. Under the Companies Law, within 28 days of the commencement of the voluntary liquidation, the liquidator will (in addition to complying with other notice formalities pursuant to Cayman Islands law) place a notice of the appointment in the Cayman Islands Gazette. The liquidator may, following (i) due notice to creditors, (ii) assessment of our liabilities and (iii) upon the liquidator’s satisfaction that our assets will be sufficient to satisfy our liabilities, make interim distributions to our public shareholders from surplus assets after provision for known creditor claims and liquidation expenses. As soon as the affairs of our company are fully wound up, the liquidator must lay his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a notice published in the Cayman Islands Gazette at least 21 days before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must file a return to the Cayman Islands Registrar of Companies confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing our company is dissolved. We anticipate that we would liquidate the trust account shortly following expiration of the 28-day period described above, which means that not all the procedures for our dissolution would have been completed (in other words, a final general meeting would not have been held and the Registrar of Companies would not yet have dissolved our existence). If we are forced to declare insolvency or a petition to wind up the company is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable Cayman Islands insolvency laws, and may be included in our insolvent estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public shareholders. Our limited resources and restricted structure in addition to the numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business transaction place us at a competitive disadvantage for successfully consummating an attractive business transaction. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities, including other blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, private equity funds, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business transactions directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by the availability of sufficient financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. In addition, as we expect to focus our efforts on identifying a prospective target business in Australia in any one or more of the following industry sectors – mining, financial services and media, entertainment and leisure, our management team, although broadly experienced, may not have sufficient in-depth experience in a particular industry sector or geographic region to be able to consummate an attractive business transaction. Additionally, our obligation to pay cash in connection with up to 92% of our ordinary shares held by our public shareholders who exercise their redemption rights may reduce the resources available to us for an initial business transaction and our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business transaction. 11 We may not hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after our consummation of a business transaction. Unless otherwise required by law or the Nasdaq Capital Market, or we decide for other business or legal reasons, we may not hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after we consummate our initial business transaction. The applicable laws of the Cayman Islands do not require companies to hold a meeting of shareholders every year, although our articles of association, as amended, contemplates such a meeting in order to establish our staggered board of directors. In accordance with the Nasdaq Capital Market rules, a newly listed company not previously subject to a requirement to hold an annual meeting is required to hold its first annual meeting within one year after its first fiscal year-end following listing. Until we hold an annual meeting of shareholders, public shareholders may not be afforded the opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management. If we fail to consummate our initial business transaction by August 15, 2012 and distribute the funds in the trust account to our public shareholders, in accordance with our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, our public shareholders may receive less than their pro rata share of the trust account due to claims of creditors and our warrants will expire worthless. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers (other than our independent accountants), prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our shareholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, such entities may not agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and may seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. We currently do not have any executed waiver agreements, but we will seek to obtain them from all of our vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses. Upon liquidation if we are unable to complete a business transaction within the required timeframe, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors which were not waived. Accordingly, the per share liquidation price could be less than the $10.10 per share held in the trust account, due to claims of such creditors. In addition, Peter Ziegler, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, has agreed that he will be liable to us if and to the extent any insurance we may procure is inadequate to cover any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into or entered into a transaction agreement reduce the amounts in the trust account to below $10.10 per share, except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of the initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed wavier is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable against a third party, Mr. Ziegler will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. Based on representations that he has sufficient funds available to him to satisfy his obligations to indemnify us, we believe that Mr. Ziegler is of substantial means and capable of funding his indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked him to reserve funds for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Ziegler will be able to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification obligations may be substantially higher than he currently foresees or expects and/or his financial resources may deteriorate in the future. As a result, the steps outlined above may not effectively mitigate the risk of creditors’ claims reducing the amounts in the trust account. 12 Additionally, if we are forced to declare insolvency or a petition to wind up the company is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to Cayman Islands insolvency laws, and may be included in our insolvent estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public shareholders. To the extent any insolvency claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders at least $10.10 per share. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business transaction. Our directors may decide not to enforce Mr. Ziegler’s indemnification obligations, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $10.10 per share or there are insufficient funds for a liquidation and Peter Ziegler asserts that he is unable to satisfy his obligations or that he has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors, if any, would determine whether to take legal action against Mr. Ziegler to enforce his indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against Mr. Ziegler to enforce his indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. For example, our independent directors may deem enforcement of the indemnification obligations to not be in our best interests if the cost to bring the claim would be greater than the anticipated amount that we would receive if we successfully prosecuted the claim. If our directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders may be reduced below $10.10 per share. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrants will be exercisable for cash and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless, at the time of such exercise, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants offered pursuant to the initial public offering prospectus and a current prospectus relating to them is available and, even in the case of a cashless exercise which is permitted in certain circumstances, such ordinary shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the public warrants from the date the public warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to those ordinary shares until the warrants expire or are redeemed, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to prevent the public warrants from expiring worthless. Factors such as an unexpected inability to remain current in our SEC reporting obligations or other material developments concerning our business could present difficulties in maintaining an effective registration statement and a current prospectus. Holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may be deprived of any value if there is no effective registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a net cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. In such event, the holder of a unit will have paid the entire unit purchase price solely for the ordinary shares contained in the unit as the warrant will be worthless. In addition, holders of the warrants offered pursuant to the initial public offering prospectus do not have the option to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, which may make exercise prohibitive, except under certain limited circumstances. 13 An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of ordinary shares upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state or jurisdiction of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless the ordinary shares issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt from registration or qualification under the securities laws of the state or jurisdiction of residence of the holder of such warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of ordinary shares by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of ordinary shares upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable, we expect to be listed on a national securities exchange, which, under current laws, would provide an exemption from registration in every state in the United States, or, if we are not listed on an exchange, we would use our best efforts to register the warrants in every state in which they were initially offered (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may be deprived of any value if the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt from registration or qualification under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of such warrants. In such event, the holder of a unit will have paid the entire unit purchase price solely for the ordinary shares contained in the unit as the warrant will be worthless. In no event will holders of warrants be entitled to a net cash settlement or cash settlement for their warrants. Since we are not restricted to a particular geographic region or industry and we have not yet selected a target business with which to complete a business transaction, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. While we expect to focus on businesses in Australia in mining, financial services and media, our efforts in identifying prospective target businesses will not be limited to a particular geographic region or industry. We do not have any specific business transaction under consideration. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular industry or region in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business transaction with a company that does not have a stable history of earnings and growth or an entity in a relatively early stage of its development, or business plan, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business transaction with an entity in an industry or geographic region characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry or region. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry, geographic region or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in the initial public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of the value of the trust account, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 14 We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business transaction. Issuance of share capital would have a dilutive effect on our public shareholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership. Our memorandum and articles of association, as amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 49,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. There are 26,066,667 authorized but unissued ordinary shares (on a fully diluted basis excluding the underwriter’s purchase option) available for issuance and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report, we may issue all of our additional ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary and preferred shares, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business transaction. We may also apply the cash released from the trust account for general corporate purposes, thus increasing the amount of the business transaction that may be paid using ordinary shares. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of shares of our preferred shares: · would have dilutive effect on our public shareholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if we issue preferred shares with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; · may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to consummate our initial business transaction, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this annual report to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur substantial debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to consummate an initial business transaction. Furthermore, we may also apply the cash released from the trust account for general corporate purposes, thus increasing the amount of the business transaction that may be paid by issuing notes, debt securities or incurring substantial debt. There are no limitations on the amount of debt securities we may issue or the amount of debt we may incur. The incurrence of debt: · may lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating earnings after a business transaction are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · may cause an acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in any debt agreements, such as covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; · may create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and earned interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debts are payable on demand; and · may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt agreements contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such debt is outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors. 15 We may be unable to obtain any additional financing necessary to complete a business transaction or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business transaction. We believe that the net proceeds of the initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business transaction. However, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business transaction, the depletion of the available net proceeds expended in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business transaction, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business transaction and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business transaction, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure such financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business transaction. We anticipate completing only one business transaction with the proceeds of the initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. By consummating a business transaction with only a single entity, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business transactions in different industries or different areas of a single industry, and in the same or different geographic regions. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry or geographic region in which we may operate subsequent to a business transaction. We could face additional risks in our ability to consummate our initial business transaction if we choose to acquire several businesses simultaneously. If we determine to acquire several businesses simultaneously and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business transactions, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business transaction. With multiple business transactions, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers). We will also be subject to additional risks after the closings of such acquisitions relating to the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business including the risk of consolidating management teams, employees and administrative staffs into a smaller, more cost effective workforce. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business transaction. We may structure a business transaction to acquire less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but will not acquire less than a controlling interest. We will acquire a controlling interest either through the acquisition of at least 50.1% of the voting equity interests in the target or through the acquisition of a significant voting equity interest that enables us to exercise a greater degree of control over the target than any other person or group. However, other minority shareholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company’s stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that we will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. 16 Unlike other blank check companies, we allow holders of up to 92% of our public shares to exercise their redemption rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business transaction with which a substantial majority of our shareholders do not agree. We will proceed with our initial business transaction if holders of less than 92% of our public shares redeem their ordinary shares. The 92% redemption threshold is different from the redemption or conversion thresholds used by most blank check companies. Traditionally, blank check companies would not be able to consummate a business transaction if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business transaction and elected to redeem more than a much smaller percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold is typically between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business transactions because the amount of shares voted by their public shareholders electing redemption exceeded the maximum redemption threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with a business transaction. As a result, we may be able to consummate a business transaction even though a substantial majority of our public shareholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, solely if we hold a shareholder vote to approve our initial business transaction, and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our officers, directors or their affiliates. We may likely seek a business transaction with one or more privately-held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In accordance with our business strategy, we are likely (but not certain) to seek a business transaction with one or more privately-held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about such companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in one of these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about our target companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. These same observations may also apply to public companies operating outside of the disclosure, financial reporting, and regulatory regime imposed on U.S. public companies. The requirement that we complete a business transaction by August 15, 2012 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business transaction. If we have not consummated a business transaction by August 15, 2012, we will be forced to cease operations and ultimately liquidate our assets. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business transaction will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business transaction, knowing that if we do not complete a business transaction with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business transaction with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limits referenced above. Substantial resources could be expended in researching initial business transactions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate an initial business transaction. We anticipate the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other third party fees and expenses. If we decide not to enter into an agreement with respect to a specific proposed initial business transaction we have investigated, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate a business transaction. 17 If we seek to effect a business transaction with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with a member or members of our management team, conflicts of interest could arise. Members of our management team either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies that we may seek to acquire. While we do not intend to pursue an initial business transaction with any company that is affiliated with our management team, we are not prohibited from pursuing such a transaction. In the event we seek to complete an initial business transaction with such a company, we would obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA or a body of equivalent status in a non-US jurisdiction, that such an initial business transaction is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. Notwithstanding, potential conflicts of interest may still exist, and, as a result, the terms of the business transaction may not be as advantageous to our public shareholders as they would have been absent any conflicts of interest. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who may be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry, geographic region, or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses which, even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt incurred in connection with or following our initial business transaction. There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses that may be incurred by our officers and directors in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business transactions. We will reimburse our officers and directors for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business transactions. There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses reimbursable by us, provided that members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount held outside of the trust account of $800,000 and interest income on the trust account balance, net of taxes payable on such interest, that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, unless a business transaction is consummated. Additionally, there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses other than by our audit committee and, in some cases, by our board of directors, in certain instances, or if such reimbursement is challenged, by a court of competent jurisdiction. As out-of-pocket expenses incurred by our officers and directors will not be subject to any dollar limit or any review of the reasonableness of such expenses other than by our audit committee or our board of directors, the aggregate business expenses incurred by our officers and directors in connection with investigating and selecting possible target businesses may be greater than if such expenses were subject to a more extensive review, which would reduce the amount of working capital available to us for a business transaction. In addition, if such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available funds held outside of the trust and the interest income that may be released to us as described above, our members of management will not be reimbursed for such excess unless we consummate a business transaction. As described in more detail below, this may create a conflict of interest for members of our management in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business transaction and in the public shareholders’ best interest. 18 Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business transaction. Our officers and directors are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business transaction. All of our executive officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business transaction. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Members of our management team may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as other entities with which they are or may become affiliated or have a relationship and, as a result, may have conflicts of interest that may adversely affect us. Due to affiliations with other companies and enterprises, members of our management team may have contractual and fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to entities and enterprises with which they are affiliated or otherwise have a relationship with prior to presenting them to us which could cause conflicts of interest. Additionally, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a discussion of our management team’s and our directors’ past, current and existing affiliations and potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see “Management – Directors and Executive Officers,” “Management – Conflicts of Interest” and “Transactions With Related Persons.” We cannot assure you that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor, and a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us (if at all). Our long-term success will likely be dependent upon a yet to be identified management team. Our ability to successfully effect a business transaction is dependent upon the efforts of our management team. The future role of our management team in any acquired business or businesses, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that one or more of our officers and directors, including Mr. Ziegler, will remain associated in some capacity with any acquired business or businesses following a business transaction (potentially as officers, directors or consultants), it is likely that the management team of the acquired business or businesses at the time of the business transaction will remain in place given that it is possible that they will have greater knowledge, experience and expertise than our management team in the industry sector and geographic region in which the acquired business or businesses operate as well as in managing the acquired business or businesses. Thus, even though one or more of our officers and directors may continue to be associated with us after a business transaction, it is likely that we will be dependent upon a yet to be identified management team for our long-term success. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management team of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business transaction, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the management team will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business transaction. These agreements may provide for them or their related parties to receive compensation following a business transaction and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business transaction is the most advantageous. After the consummation of a business transaction, our officers and directors may remain associated in some capacity with the acquired business or businesses if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business transaction. Such negotiations may, and most likely would, take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business transaction and could provide for such individuals or their related parties to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the acquired business or businesses after the consummation of the business transaction. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. 19 We may in the future hire consultants or advisors on a contingent basis, who would only receive payment in the event a business transaction occurred and, therefore, they might be viewed as having an interest in such business transaction occurring. We may in the future hire consultants or advisors to assist us with our search for a target business or businesses or otherwise advise us in connection with our initial business transaction and any compensation payable to such persons may be contingent upon the closing of our initial business transaction. As a result, such consultants and advisors who provide advice to us would only receive compensation if a business transaction occurred and therefore they might be viewed as having an interest in such business transaction occurring that is different from, or conflicts with, the interests of our public shareholders. Our officers and directors beneficially own initial ordinary shares and insider warrants issued prior to the initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business transaction. Our initial shareholders own ordinary shares that were issued prior to the initial public offering. Additionally, our management team purchased all of the insider warrants on a private placement basis before the consummation of the initial public offering. Our management team will not be able to exercise their insider warrants if investors in the initial public offering are not able to exercise their warrants. The insider warrants are identical to the warrants included in the units sold in the initial public offering, except that the insider warrants: are subject to transfer restrictions; are non-redeemable by us so long as they are held by our management team or their permitted transferees; and may be exercised by our management team or their permitted transferees on a cashless basis. Our initial shareholders have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial ordinary shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business transaction. Accordingly, the ordinary shares acquired prior to the initial public offering, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in the initial public offering or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business transaction. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business transaction are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Unless we complete a business transaction, members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the available funds held outside of the trust and the interest income that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business transaction and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the $608,318 held outside of the trust account and interest income on the trust account balance, net of taxes payable on such interest that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements. Members of our management team may, as part of our initial business transaction, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’ owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management team to view such potential business transaction unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interests of members of our management team could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business transaction is in the shareholders’ best interest. 20 The Nasdaq Capital Market may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. Additionally, in connection with our business transaction, the Nasdaq Capital Market will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the Nasdaq Capital Market delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our ordinary shares is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the outstanding warrants (excluding the insider warrants held by our management team or their permitted assigns) issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption, and if, and only if, the last sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants we have an effective registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such ordinary shares is available. It can be advantageous for us to redeem the warrants if the market price of our ordinary shares reaches $17.50 per share for the necessary trading period, since doing so would allow us to decrease the dilutive effect of the warrants. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to exercise the warrants, whether by paying the exercise price in cash or through a cashless exercise at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to us. 21 Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis after we call the warrants for redemption or if there is no effective registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants will cause holders to receive fewer ordinary shares upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to pay the exercise price of their warrants in cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described in the initial public offering prospectus have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” “Cashless exercise” means the warrant holder pays the exercise price by giving up some of the ordinary shares for which the warrant is being exercised, with those ordinary shares valued at the then current market price. Accordingly, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of ordinary shares equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of ordinary shares underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the fair market value by (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average last sales price of our ordinary shares for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. For example, if the holder is exercising 875 public warrants at $11.50 per share through a cashless exercise when the ordinary shares have a fair market value per share of $17.50 per share, then upon the cashless exercise, the holder will receive 300 ordinary shares. The holder would have received 875 ordinary shares if the exercise price was paid in cash. In addition, in the event a registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant is not effective within a specified period following the consummation of our initial business transaction, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any period when we shall have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis. For purposes of calculating the number of ordinary shares issuable upon such cashless exercise, the “fair market value” of warrants shall be calculated using the volume weighted average sale price of the ordinary shares for the 10 trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date on which notice of exercise is received by the warrant agent. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis or if holders elect to do so when there is no effective registration statement, the number of ordinary shares received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company because the warrantholder will hold a smaller number of ordinary shares upon a cashless exercise of the warrants they hold. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants in order to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in an adverse way to a holder if holders of at least two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. The ability of a larger number of our shareholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business transaction or optimize our capital structure. If our business transaction requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many public shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business transaction in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business transaction available to us. 22 Even if holders of less than 92% of our public shares elect to exercise their redemption rights, we may be unable to consummate a business transaction. Although we permit holders of no more than 92% of our public shares to exercise their redemption rights, a potential target may make it a closing condition to our business transaction that we exceed a certain minimum net asset valuation at the time of closing. If the number of our public shareholders electing to exercise their redemption rights would have the effect of reducing the amount of money available to us to consummate a business transaction below such minimum net asset valuation, we would not be able to consummate our business transaction. If we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction, public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a ‘‘group’’ with, may be restricted from redeeming more than 15% of the public shares. Our articles of association, as amended, provide that a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a ‘‘group’’ (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from redeeming their ordinary shares in connection with our initial business transaction with respect to more than an aggregate of 15% of the public shares under certain circumstances. Solely if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and we conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction subject to the U.S. domestic issuer rules in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules as a result of the loss of our FPI status, any individual shareholder or “group” will be restricted from redeeming public shares in connection with our initial business transaction in excess of an aggregate of 15% of the public shares. Accordingly, if you purchase more than 15% of the public shares, you will not be able to exercise your redemption rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business transaction or that the market price of the ordinary shares will exceed the per-share redemption price. Tendering stock certificates in connection with a tender offer or redemption rights may result in increased costs to our shareholders. We may require our public shareholders seeking to exercise their redemption rights, whether they are record holders or hold their ordinary shares in “street name,” to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent prior to the date set forth in the tender offer documents or proxy materials mailed to such holders, or up to two business days prior to the vote on the proposal to approve the business transaction in the event we distribute proxy materials, or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System, at the holder’s option. The tender offer or proxy materials, as applicable, that we will furnish to holders of our public shares in connection with our initial business transaction will indicate whether we are requiring public shareholders to satisfy such delivery requirements. Accordingly, a public shareholder would have from the time we send out our tender offer materials until the close of the tender offer period, or up to two days prior to the vote on the business transaction if we distribute proxy materials, as applicable, to tender his ordinary shares if he wishes to seek to exercise his redemption rights. Given the relatively short exercise period, it is advisable for shareholders to use electronic delivery of the public shares. There is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC System. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35.00 and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the redeeming holder. However, this fee would be incurred, in connection with a proxy solicitation, regardless of whether or not we require holders seeking to exercise redemption rights to tender their shares prior to the shareholders meeting. The need to deliver shares is a requirement of properly exercising redemption rights regardless of the timing of when such delivery must be effectuated. However, in the event we require shareholders seeking to exercise redemption rights to deliver their shares prior to the consummation of the proposed business transaction and the proposed business transactions is not consummated (and therefore we would not be obligated to pay cash in connection with the tendered shares), this may result in an increased cost to those shareholders. 23 The foregoing is different from the procedures used by many blank check companies. Traditionally, in order to perfect redemption rights in connection with a blank check company’s business transaction, the company would distribute proxy materials for the shareholders’ vote on an initial business transaction, and a holder could simply vote against a proposed business transaction and check a box on the proxy card indicating such holder was seeking to exercise his redemption rights. After the business transaction was approved, the company would contact such shareholder to arrange for him to deliver his certificate to verify ownership. As a result, the shareholder then had an “option window” after the consummation of the business transaction during which he could monitor the price of the company’s stock in the market. If the price rose above the redemption price, he could sell his shares in the open market before actually delivering his shares to the company for cancellation. As a result, the redemption rights, to which shareholders were aware they needed to commit before the shareholder meeting, would become a “redemption” right surviving past the consummation of the business transaction until the redeeming holder delivered its certificate. The requirement for physical or electronic delivery prior to the meeting ensures that a redeeming holder’s election to redeem is irrevocable once the business transaction is approved. Any request to redeem such shares once made, may be withdrawn at any time up to the date set forth in the tender offer materials or the date of the shareholder meeting set forth in our proxy materials, as applicable. Furthermore, if a holder of public shares delivers certificates in connection with the exercise of redemption rights and subsequently decides prior to the applicable date not to exercise such rights, he may simply request that the transfer agent return the certificate (physically or electronically). It is anticipated that the funds to be distributed to holders of our public shares properly exercising their redemption rights, in connection with a proxy solicitation, will be distributed promptly after the completion of a business transaction, and in connection with a tender offer, will be distributed promptly after the completion of tender offer. Solely if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and we conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction subject to the U.S. domestic issuer rules in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules as a result of the loss of our FPI status, and the proposed business transaction is not approved or consummated for any reason, then our public shareholders who elected to exercise their redemption rights would not be entitled to redeem their shares for the applicable pro rata share of the trust account. In such case, we will promptly return any shares delivered by public holders who elected to redeem their shares. If the initial proposed business transaction is not consummated, we may continue to try to consummate a business transaction with the same or a different target by August 15, 2012. If the initial business transaction is not completed for any reason, then public shareholders who properly exercised their redemption rights would not be entitled to redeem their shares for a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account. In such case, if we have required public shareholders to tender their certificates, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public shareholder. Public shareholders will only be entitled to receive their pro rata share of the aggregate amount on deposit in the trust account in connection with the proper exercise of redemption rights in the event that an initial business transaction is consummated by August 15, 2012. If the proposed business transaction is not consummated, then a shareholder’s election to exercise its redemption rights will not be honored, and such redemption will not be entitled to a cash payment, even if such redemption right was properly exercised. If we require public shareholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed business transaction to comply with specific requirements for redemption, such redeeming shareholders may be unable to sell their securities when they wish to in the event that the proposed business transaction is not approved. If we require public shareholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with the proposed business transaction to comply with specific requirements for redemption and such proposed business transaction is not consummated, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public shareholders. Accordingly, investors who attempted to redeem their shares in such a circumstance will be unable to sell their securities after the failed acquisition until we have returned their securities to them. The market price for our ordinary shares may decline during this time and you may not be able to sell your securities when you wish to, even while other shareholders that did not seek redemption may be able to sell their securities. 24 Our initial shareholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our initial shareholders collectively own 25% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares (assuming none of them purchased units in the initial public offering). We may consummate an initial business transaction before there is an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of our initial business transaction. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our staggered board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election, and our initial shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business transaction Our initial shareholders have not established specific criteria that would trigger their purchases of our securities, and they would likely consider a wide variety of factors in determining whether to purchase any of our securities, including whether they believe that such securities are undervalued. Our initial shareholders are not restricted as to the price and could pay a premium to purchase additional securities. If they were to make any such purchases, our initial shareholders will have a greater influence on matters requiring shareholder approval, including the vote taken in connection with a business transaction. Additional purchases by our initial shareholders would (i) increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirement that less than 92% of the public shares demand to redeem their shares and (ii) increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business transaction. This may result in the consummation of a business transaction that may not otherwise have been possible. To the extent that our initial shareholders or their affiliates purchase ordinary shares in the aftermarket, or otherwise purchase ordinary shares, such purchases may have an impact on the market price of our ordinary shares. Investors should note that all of our initial shareholders own ordinary shares and our management owns insider warrants which will become worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction and, accordingly, they have an interest in causing a business transaction to be consummated that is different from our other shareholders. There are also potential conflicts which may arise from the fact that our initial shareholders have a lower cost basis in their investment, which will allow them to profit from a business transaction even though such business transaction may be unprofitable for public shareholders. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business transaction. We issued warrants to purchase 6,400,000 ordinary shares as part of the units offered by the initial public offering prospectus and also issued the insider warrants to purchase 8,000,000 ordinary shares. We also issued an option to purchase 640,000 units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 640,000 ordinary shares and 640,000 warrants. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect a business transaction, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. This is because such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business transaction. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business transaction or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The grant of registration rights to our initial shareholders may make it more difficult to complete our initial business transaction, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Pursuant to an agreement to be entered into concurrently with the issuance and sale of the securities in the initial public offering, our initial shareholders and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the initial ordinary shares and the insider warrants, and the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the insider warrants. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the initial ordinary shares and the insider warrants and the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of such insider warrants at any time commencing upon the date that such shares are released from escrow. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If such persons exercise their registration rights in full, there will be an additional 2,133,133 ordinary shares (assuming no exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option) and up to 8,000,000 ordinary shares issuable on exercise of the insider warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business transaction more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the shareholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our ordinary shares that is expected when the securities owned by our initial shareholders are registered. 25 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to satisfy burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business transaction. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we will invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we will be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust will be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business transaction, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business transaction. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome compliance requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Because we are not required to seek an independent valuation as to the fair market value of a target business, our board of directors may not accurately determine the fair market value of a target business, and as a result we may pay more than what the target business is actually worth. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value if our board of directors independently determines that the target business complies with the 80% threshold. Unless we consummate a business transaction with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the price we are paying is fair to our shareholders. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential gross margins, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, book value and, where appropriate, upon the advice of appraisers or other professional consultants. If an independent valuation is not obtained, our shareholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. If we consummate an initial business transaction with an affiliated entity, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or a body of equivalent status in a non-US jurisdiction with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. If our board of directors, or any investment banking firm or other expert upon whose opinion our board may rely, overestimates the fair market value of a company that we acquire, then the value of our securities could be adversely affected. 26 Assuming we acquire a target business with operations outside of the United States, economic, political, social and other factors of the country or geographic region where the target business operates may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. As we are seeking to acquire a target business that has its primary operations located in the Commonwealth of Australia, our ability to achieve our business objective may be adversely affected by economic, political, social and religious factors affecting the Commonwealth of Australia. The economy of such country or geographic region may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as the level of economic development, the amount of governmental involvement, the growth rate of its gross domestic product, the allocation of resources, the control of foreign exchange, the rate of inflation, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. These differences may adversely affect our ability to acquire one or more businesses with operations outside the United States. Additionally, changes in a country’s laws or regulations or political conditions may also impact our ability to acquire a foreign target business. One or more countries where the target business operates may have corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements that are different from those in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business transaction. Companies in other countries are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business transaction. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of a company located outside the United States may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. There may be substantially less publicly available information about companies located outside the United States than there is about United States companies. Moreover, companies in other countries may not be subject to the same degree of regulation as are United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, shareholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and shareholders’ rights for companies located outside the United States may differ from those that may apply in the United States, which may make the consummation of a business transaction with such companies located outside of the United States more difficult. We therefore may have more difficulty in achieving our business objective. Exchange controls that exist in certain countries may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business transaction. Assuming we effect a business transaction with a target business that operates in one or more countries outside of the United States, we may become subject to rules and regulations on currency conversion that are in effect in certain countries. Such rules and regulations impose restrictions on conversion of local currency into foreign currencies with respect to entities with foreign equity holdings in excess of a certain level. Such restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for any distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the country where the target business is located. Returns on investment in companies with operations outside the United States may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. Assuming we effect a business transaction with a target business that operates in one or more countries outside of the United States, our investments in certain countries may incur tax risk, and income that might otherwise not be subject to withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may be subject to withholding in such countries. Any withholding taxes paid by us on income from our investments in other countries may or may not be creditable on our income tax returns. We intend to avail ourselves of income tax treaties that are in place to seek to minimize any withholding tax or local tax otherwise imposed in other countries. However, there is no assurance that the local tax authorities will recognize application of such treaties to achieve a minimization of local tax. We may also elect to create foreign subsidiaries to effect the business transactions to attempt to limit the potential tax consequences of a business transaction, however there is no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. 27 Assuming we effect a business transaction with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. Assuming we effect a business transaction with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to risks associated with companies operating in the target business’s home jurisdiction. The additional risks we may be exposed to include but are not limited to the following: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; · governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; · governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation; · currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; · employment regulations; · inflation; · expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; · political and economic instability; · natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; and · crimes, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our assets, operations, or profitability might suffer. 28 International and political events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may enter into an initial business transaction with a non-U.S. entity and, accordingly, a significant portion of our post business transaction revenue may be derived from non-U.S. operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending 2012. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or shareholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. If we effect a business transaction with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. We do not intend to focus our search on target businesses located in the United States. Accordingly, it is likely that we will effect a business transaction with a company located outside of the United States. As such, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern most, if not all, of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some or all of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands which would negatively affect our results. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on either income or capital gains. We have applied to the Governor-in-Cabinet of the Cayman Islands and have been granted an exemption from the imposition of any such tax on us for 20 years from August 17, 2010. We cannot be assured that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. See “Taxation – Cayman Islands Taxation.” 29 If we are treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” it could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. If we are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, known as a “PFIC,” U.S. holders could be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will be subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether we are a PFIC will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the market value of our ordinary shares from time to time, which may be volatile. In general, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For purposes of these tests, cash, including working capital, and investments are considered assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If a corporation would otherwise be a PFIC in its start-up year (defined as the first taxable year such corporation earns gross income), it is not treated as a PFIC in that taxable year, provided that: (i) no predecessor corporation was a PFIC; (ii) it is established to the Internal Revenue Service’s satisfaction that the corporation will not be a PFIC in either of the two succeeding taxable years; and (iii) the corporation is not, in fact, a PFIC for either succeeding taxable year. Certain elections may sometimes be used to reduce the adverse impact of the PFIC rules. These elections may not be available to U.S. holders. If these elections are available and are made, they may result in a current U.S. federal tax liability prior to any distribution or the disposition of the ordinary shares, and without the assurance of a U.S. holder receiving an equivalent amount of income or gain from a distribution or disposition. We cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. If you acquire more than 10% of our ordinary shares, the controlled foreign corporation rules may apply to you. Each “United States shareholder” of a “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) who owns ordinary shares in the CFC on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year must generally include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign persons, or is considered to own under applicable constructive ownership rules of the Code (including by holding a security convertible into or exchangeable for ordinary shares), 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a foreign corporation will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” In general, we will be treated as a CFC only if such “United States shareholders” collectively own more than 50% of our total combined voting power or total value of our ordinary shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during the tax year. U.S. persons who might, directly or through attribution, acquire 10% or more of our shares should consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules. Risks Associated with Targeted Geographic Region and Industry Sectors We believe that Australia and businesses in the industry sectors involving mining, financial services and media, entertainment and leisure (“the targeted industry sectors”) are subject to risks. We may also focus on other geographic regions or industries if we believe those regions or industries are able to provide attractive financial returns. Any information regarding Australia and the targeted industry sectors that is included in the initial public offering prospectus may be irrelevant if we decide to consider a target business or businesses outside of the targeted industry sectors. Any devaluation of the Australian dollar could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and any appreciation thereof could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because we expect to focus our efforts in identifying an initial business transaction with a target business located in Australia, and because substantially all revenues and income following a business transaction would be received in a foreign currency, the United States dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Australian dollar. To the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into the Australian dollars for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert the Australian dollars into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Australian dollar we convert would be reduced. As of November 15, 2010 the exchange rate of one Australian dollar was 0.985824 United States dollars. 30 Australia’s economic dependency on the economies of Asia, Europe and the United States as key trading partners may adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives if negative changes occur in any of these economies. Certain Asian economies have experienced over-extension of credit, currency devaluations and restrictions, rising unemployment, decreased exports and economic recessions. Economic events in any one country may have a significant effect on the entire Asian region as well as on major trading partners outside of Asia and any adverse event in Asian markets may have a significant adverse effect on the Australian economy. In addition, most developed countries in Western Europe are members of the European Union and the Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union (the “EMU”). The EMU requires compliance with restriction on inflation rates, deficits, interest rates, debt levels and fiscal and monetary controls, each of which may significantly affect every country in Europe. Decreasing imports or exports, changes in governmental regulations on trade, changes in the exchange rate of the euro and recessions among EU members may have a significant adverse effect on the entire European region as well as on major trading partners outside Europe and any adverse event in the European markets may have a significant adverse effect on the Australian economy. The United States is Australia’s largest investment partner. Any downturn in U.S. economic activity may have an adverse effect on Australian exports. For the reasons stated above, any reduction in spending by any of these economies on Australian products and services or negative changes in any of these economies may cause an adverse impact on the Australian economy and adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Australia’s susceptibility to fluctuations in the commodity markets may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. The mining sector accounts for a significant portion of Australia’s exports. Therefore, Australia’s economy is susceptible to fluctuations in the commodity markets and, in particular, in the price of and demand for natural resources. Any negative changes in these markets could have an adverse impact on the Australian economy and adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. The speculative nature of certain segments of the targeted industry sectors may result in our inability to produce products or services; or, having produced products or services, they fail to receive sufficient market acceptance for us to be successful. Certain segments of the targeted industry sectors are highly speculative and historically have involved a substantial degree of risk. For example, in the mining sector, the exploration for, and production of, minerals is highly speculative and involves risks different from, and in some instances greater than, risks encountered by companies in other industries. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of any minerals, and any minerals discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality. Simply discovering promising mineralization may not warrant production because the minerals may be difficult or impossible to extract or mine on a profitable basis, if at all. Profitability of any extraction and mining we may conduct will involve a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the ability to obtain all required permits, costs of bringing the property into production, the construction of adequate production facilities, the availability and costs of financing, keeping ongoing costs of production at economic levels, and market prices for the minerals to be mined staying above production costs. Further, even if a company is able to extract minerals on a profitable basis, it could take months or even years from the time that it commences such extraction to the time that it is able to sell such minerals. Accordingly, for a business in the mining sector, no assurance is possible that any target business we may acquire in the future will own properties that contain deposits of minerals that will be profitable to extract or mine. 31 For another example, in the media, entertainment and leisure sector, the success of a particular film, video game, program or recreational attraction depends upon unpredictable and changing factors, including the success of promotional efforts, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, public acceptance and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we complete a business transaction with a target business in either of these industry segments, we may be unable to produce products or services, or, having been successful in producing the same, they may fail to receive sufficient market acceptance for us to be successful. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the products or services we may offer following a business transaction. Certain segments of the targeted industry sectors are substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology; this is especially so with respect to financial services. These changes may reduce the demand for certain existing services and technologies used in these industries or render them obsolete. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon or produced by a target business with which we effect a business transaction will not be subject to such occurrence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by the target business to newer technologies and changed physical or commercial operating environments, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. If following a business transaction, the products or services that we market or sell are not accepted by the public, our profits may decline. Certain segments of the targeted industry sectors are dependent on developing and marketing new products and services that respond to competitive, regulatory and/or technological developments and changing demand requirements from intermediate and end users. This is especially true of certain segments of the financial services sector. We cannot assure you that the products and services of a target business with which we effect a business transaction will gain or maintain market acceptance. Any significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced product and service offerings, including new technology, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenues, profitability and asset values. If we are unable to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights following a business transaction, competitors may be able to use our technology or intellectual property rights, which could weaken our competitive position. If we are successful in acquiring a target business and the target business is dependent on patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, either in the country where the target business is established or has operations and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. This risk is especially apparent in the media sector. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property or other rights of third parties it could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. If, following a business transaction, third parties allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights and/or restrict our ability to profitably undertake our business. 32 