D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report. We believe that the risks described below are all of the material risks we face. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risks Associated with our Business We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, accordingly, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon the consummation of a business combination. Because we do not have an operating history and our efforts have been limited to organizational activities, activities relating to our initial public offering, activities relating to identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates and activities relating to general corporate matters, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate our initial business combination with one or more operating businesses. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement which we closed in connection with our initial public offering) until, if at all, after the consummation of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, our initial business combination will occur. If we expend all of the proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust, which amounted to $177,403 at April 30, 2011, and interest income earned of up to $2.0 million on the balance of the trust account (net of taxes) that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking our initial business combination, but fail to complete a business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to distribute the trust account proceeds and liquidate our trust account. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we have 18 months from the completion of the our initial public offering in which to consummate our initial business combination (24 months if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination prior to April 14, 2012). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame, this will trigger the compulsory repurchase by us, within five business days, of all shares held by the public shareholders and the distribution of amounts in the trust account by paying each public shareholder a pro rata portion of the amount in the trust account in return for such shareholder’s shares (which will be subsequently cancelled upon completion of the redemption of such shares). 2 The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article 47, which we refer to as our business combination articles, in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and may not be amended except by approval of 66.66% of the issued and outstanding shares at a meeting where the holders of 95% of the outstanding ordinary shares must be present in order to constitute a quorum. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of our initial business combination. Furthermore, we will be unable to consummate an initial business combination if holders of 49.9% or more of the shares included in the units sold in our initial public offering vote against the initial business combination and exercise their shareholder redemption rights for a pro rata share of the trust account, even if a majority of our public shareholders approve the transaction. We do not have any specific business combination under consideration, and neither we, nor any representative acting on our behalf, has had any contact with any target businesses regarding an initial business combination, nor taken any direct or indirect actions to locate or search for a target business. If we are forced to liquidate our trust account before the completion of an initial business combination and distribute the trust account, our public shareholders may receive less than $10.00 per share and our warrants may expire worthless. If we fail to sign a definitive agreement with respect to our initial business combination, or if we fail to complete an initial business combination within 18 months from the completion of our initial public offering (or 24 months if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination), we will notify our shareholders that we will compulsorily repurchase all shares held by the public shareholders using the proceeds in our trust account. In these circumstances, the per-share repurchase distribution may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking an initial business combination. If we were unable to conclude our initial business combination and have expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of up to $2.0 million in interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the initial per-share repurchase amount for the shares issued in our initial public offering would be $10.00. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination, our public shareholders will be forced to wait the full 18 months (or 24 months if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination) before receiving the trust account proceeds. We have 18 months from the completion of our initial public offering (or 24 months if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination within such 18 month period) to complete our initial business combination. If we do not consummate our initial business combination during such time period, we will notify our shareholders that we will compulsorily repurchase, within five business days, all shares held by the public shareholders. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to the expiration of the 18 month period (or 24 month period) unless we consummate an initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have properly sought shareholder redemption of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public shareholders be entitled to repurchase distributions if we are unable to complete an initial business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public shareholders owning 49.9% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (minus one ordinary share) exercise their shareholder redemption rights. We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public shareholders owning not more than 49.9% less one share of the shares sold in our initial public offering vote against the initial business combination and exercise their shareholder redemption rights. Accordingly, shareholders holding no more than 49.9% of the ordinary shares purchased in our initial public offering may exercise their shareholder redemption rights as described above and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the shareholder redemption percentage at 49.9% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our ordinary shares will be able to prevent an initial business combination from being completed that is otherwise approved by a majority of our public shareholders. Our initial business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such shareholder redemption rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their shareholder redemption rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our initial business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of shareholders exercise their shareholder redemption rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following an initial business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to obtain third party financing for either situation. We may not be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us if at all. 3 You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds from our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a U.S. national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of approximately $40 million upon the successful consummation of our initial public offering and have filed a Report of Foreign Private Issuer on Form 6-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, to protect investors in blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules such as completely restricting the transferability of our securities, requiring us to complete an initial business combination within 18 months of the effective date of the initial registration statement and restricting the use of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, among other things, we will be entitled to withdraw up to $2.0 million of interest, after taxes, earned on the funds held in the trust account prior to the completion of our initial business combination and we have a longer period of time to complete our initial business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having an initial business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we do. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. As of May 13, 2011, 98 of the 177 blank check companies that have gone public in the United States since August 2003 have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination and 65 companies have failed to complete business combinations and have either dissolved or announced their intention to dissolve and return trust proceeds to their shareholders. This may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. Further: • our obligation to seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination may cause us to be viewed as a less attractive buyer compared to buyers who do not need such approval given the time required to seek such approval and the concomitant potential delay in the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to redeem into cash up to 49.9% (minus one share) of the ordinary shares held by public shareholders in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. These obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within the required time period, we will be forced to liquidate our trust account. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account, together with the $2.0 million of interest in the trust account (net of taxes) which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least during the 18 months period following the completion of our initial public offering (or 24 months if extended), we may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account (which as of April 30, 2011 amounted to $177,403), plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least during the 18 months period following the completion of our initial public offering (or 24 months if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination), assuming that an initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit the funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. We may require shareholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed initial business combination to comply with specific requirements for shareholder redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their shareholder redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public shareholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed initial business combination to either physically tender their certificates, if they hold physical share certificates, to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the shareholder meeting relating to such business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact, or of the amount of time required to deliver physical share certificates. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for shareholders to deliver their shares, shareholders who wish to redeem may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their shareholder redemption rights and thus may be unable to redeem their shares. 4 Public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. In connection with any shareholder approval to approve our initial business combination, we will offer each public shareholder the right to have his, her, or its ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the consummation of our initial business combination, if, our initial business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from exercising redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering on a cumulative basis, in connection with the shareholder vote, required to approve our initial business combination. Accordingly, if you, alone or as part of such a partnership, syndicate or group, purchase more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering you will not be able to seek shareholder redemption rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time or that the market price of the ordinary shares will exceed the per-share redemption price. After we consummate our initial business combination, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ordinary share price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of each target business we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance, legal and other professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even though we intend to conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which a target business operates and we subsequently consummate a business combination with that target, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete an initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, at April 30, 2011 total cash outside the trust account available for funding our working capital requirements amounts to $177,403. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with up to $2.0 million in additional working capital that we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to consummate our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. Although we do not know the exact rate of interest to be earned on the trust account, we believe that the recent historical interest rates of U.S. Treasury Bills with less than six months maturities are indicative of the interest to be earned on the funds in the trust account. According to the Federal Reserve Statistical Release dated May 2, 2011, which appears on the Federal Reserve website, U.S. Treasury Bills with four week, three month and six month maturities were approximately yielding, as of the week ended April 29, 2011, .02%, .06% and .11% per annum, respectively. While we cannot assure you the balance of the trust account will be invested to yield these rates, we believe such rates are representative of those we may receive on the balance of the trust account. While we do not necessarily expect to receive interest income of $2.0 million from the trust account, we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes up to $2.0 million in interest earned on the funds in the trust account. Without a substantial increase in interest rates, however, we may not have sufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor, officers or directors to operate or may be forced to liquidate our trust account. Our sponsor, officers or directors are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share price from the liquidation of our trust received by shareholders may be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage, and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, and other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements and the execution of such an agreement is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account, nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse directly or indirectly against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. 5 Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public shareholders and, as a result, the per-share price from the liquidation of our trust account could be less than $10.00 due to claims of such creditors. If we distribute amounts held in trust to our public shareholders pursuant to the exercise of shareholder redemption rights in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination, or if we liquidate our trust account before the completion of our initial business combination, each of Arco Capital management LLC (“ACM”) and our sponsor has agreed that it will be jointly and severally liable, by means of direct payment to the trust account, to ensure that the amount in the trust account is not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, there will be no liability (1) as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a legally enforceable waiver or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Based upon representations from our sponsor that it will have sufficient funds available to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us, we believe that our sponsor and ACM will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise given the limited nature of the obligations. However, in the event they have liability to us under these indemnification arrangements, we cannot assure you that they will have the assets necessary to satisfy those obligations. Furthermore, there could be claims from parties other than vendors or target businesses that would not be covered by this indemnity, such as shareholders and other claimants who are not parties in contract with us who file a claim for damages against us. Obtaining trust fund waivers from prospective target businesses and vendors, and the contractual commitments we have received from our sponsor discussed above, are the only actions we will take to ensure that the funds in the trust account are not depleted by claims against the trust. Because we will seek to have all vendors (other than our independent accountants), providers of financing and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of our sponsor having any such obligations is minimal. However, there is no guarantee that vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities will execute such waivers, or even if they execute such waivers that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to seek recourse against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have questioned our sponsor with respect to their financial net worth and reviewed their financial information and believe that they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate our trust account, will not be less than $10.00, plus interest, due to such claims. Additionally, if we became insolvent or a petition to wind up our company is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable Cayman Islands insolvency law, and may be included in our insolvent estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders (including claims of our shareholders for amount owed to them as a result the redemption or repurchase of our shares). To the extent any insolvency claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders at least $10.00 per share. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that if after 18 months (or 24 months, if we have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement with respect to an initial business combination) from the completion of our initial public offering we have not consummated our initial business combination, we will notify our shareholders that we will compulsorily repurchase all shares held by the public shareholders, including the repayment of our shareholders, using the proceeds of our trust account. To the extent any claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the repurchase amounts payable to them. In addition, under certain limited circumstances, distributions received by shareholders could be viewed by applicable laws (including insolvency laws and certain equitable and/or restitution principles) as either fraudulent transfers or mistaken or otherwise wrongful payments. In those circumstances, a Cayman Islands court could order that amounts received by our shareholders be repaid to us. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public shareholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares upon any such exercise unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise a warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the resale of those ordinary shares. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants as of the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the later of the expiration of the warrants or the exercise of all of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We will not be required to net cash settle the warrants if we do not maintain a current prospectus or in any other circumstances whatsoever. In such event, the warrants held by public shareholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and, as a result, an investor may have paid the full unit price solely for the ordinary shares included in the units. 6 An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of ordinary shares upon the exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state or jurisdiction of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless the issuance of the ordinary shares upon an exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state or jurisdiction of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of ordinary shares by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of ordinary shares upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (the later of our completion of an initial business combination and one year from the date of the prospectus), we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state or to seek another exemption from registration in such states. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the ordinary shares issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Since we have not yet selected any target industry or target business with which to complete an initial business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of our business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target industry or target business, investors in our initial public offering currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete an initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entities. Although our management team will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. At the time of your investment in us, you will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Accordingly, your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination will be limited to voting for or against the initial business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that you vote against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote for the proposed initial business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that you vote for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote against the proposed initial business combination or, even if approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of our outstanding shares, if holders owning more than 49.9% of our outstanding shares sold in our initial public offering elect to exercise their shareholder redemption rights. We are not required to obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless our board of directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value. The fair market value of the target will be determined by the disinterested members of our board of directors based upon one or more standards generally accepted by the financial community (such as actual and potential revenues, earnings and cash flow and/or book value). If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value if our board of directors independently determines that the target business complies with the 80% threshold. There are inherent risks in our board of directors performing its own valuation and analysis in determining the fair market value of a target business. Our board of directors may have limited experience in valuing certain business prospects of target businesses, especially those outside of emerging markets. Our board of directors is not required to provide shareholders with any information regarding their valuations and analysis or to quantify the value of any target business. Therefore, in any such event, you may have a limited basis for evaluating our board of directors’ decisions in this area. 7 If we seek to effect an initial business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with members of our management team, conflicts of interest could arise. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that an initial business combination with an affiliated entity is fair to our unaffiliated shareholders from a financial point of view and to have any such transaction approved by a majority of our disinterested independent directors, potential conflicts of interest may still exist, and, as a result, the terms of the initial business combination may not be as advantageous to our public shareholders as they would have been absent any conflicts of interest. We may issue ordinary or preferred shares or debt or other securities to consummate our initial business combination. Issuance of our equity securities would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership, while the issuance of debt or other securities may have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our available cash. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, which is effective since the consummation of our initial public offering, authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering and the purchase of the sponsor’s warrants, there were 84,910,000 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the sponsor’s warrants and public shareholders’ warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 preferred shares available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of our initial public offering, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary and preferred shares, to complete an initial business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of our preferred shares: • may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; • may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if we issue preferred shares with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the ordinary share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of our company; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares and/or warrants. Similarly, we have no limitation as to the amount of debt securities we could issue and, if we issue debt or other securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. Resources could be wasted in researching business combinations that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate our initial business combination with a target business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to proceed with a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as that more than 49.9% of our public shareholders vote against the initial business combination and opt to have us redeem their shares for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our public shareholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate our initial business combination with a target business. 8 Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may stay with us following an initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers, including Messrs. Johnston and Piovanetti with the support of certain officers and employees of ACM and/or its affiliates. We believe that our success depends on the service of these individuals, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with us or will be available for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, none of our officers is required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they could have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our officers. The unexpected loss of the services of our key personnel could have a detrimental effect on us. The role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could require us to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular initial business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular potential initial business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of an initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with our initial business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of that business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of our initial business combination. To the extent one of our officers or directors enters into such an agreement, the entry into any employment or consulting agreement will be disclosed to the shareholders and such agreement will be provided to the shareholders in the soliciting materials for a shareholder vote. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon consummation of our initial business combination. The role of an acquisition candidate’s key personnel upon the consummation of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate’s management team will remain associated with us following our initial business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. Our officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for our initial business combination and is in our best interests. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers, directors and/or our sponsor will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that expense reimbursement would cause us to exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $2 million (net of taxes) that may be released to us as working capital. Our officers and directors may, as part of any initial business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such excess expenses. We do not have a policy that prohibits our officers and directors from negotiating for the reimbursement of such expenses by a target business. If the owners of the target business do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers or directors could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular initial business combination is in our best interests. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of an initial business combination. All of our executive officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. Although we expect our officers and directors to devote the time and attention necessary to fulfill their fiduciary duty to us, the possibility remains that, if our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 9 Our officers and directors are now, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us or that of our target business and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which currently they owe fiduciary duties or with respect to which they have a contractual obligation. As a result, he or she may be required to present such business combination opportunity to such entity prior to presenting such business combination opportunity to us. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors did, directly or indirectly own shares issued prior to our initial public offering. In addition, certain of our officers and directors may acquire and own ordinary shares or warrants following our initial public offering. Certain of these shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions from our trust account and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination. Certain of our officers and directors either directly or indirectly beneficially own, or are directors or officers of affiliates of our sponsor that owns sponsor’s ordinary shares that were issued prior to our initial public offering and that has committed to purchase the sponsor’s warrants immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. Our sponsor has waived its right to receive distributions with respect to the sponsor’s ordinary shares upon our liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination. Accordingly, the sponsor’s ordinary shares, as well as the sponsor’s warrants, and any underlying securities may be worthless if we do not consummate an initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing an initial business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and is in our best interests. The Nasdaq Capital Market may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a national securities exchange. Although after giving effect to our initial public offering we meet the minimum initial listing standards set forth in Rule 5550(a) and 550(b) of the Nasdaq Capital Market Company Guide, which only requires that we meet certain requirements relating to shareholders’ equity, market capitalization, aggregate market value of publicly held shares and distribution requirements, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the Nasdaq Capital Market will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the Nasdaq Capital Market delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our ordinary shares are “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with one or more target businesses having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account at the time of such acquisition plus any amounts previously distributed to shareholders who have exercised their shareholder redemption rights. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be solely dependent upon the performance of a single business. Our lack of diversification may further subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the industry in which we ultimately operate and may expose us to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations or that have diversified operations. 10 Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of the sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their shareholder redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek shareholder approval of any initial business combination, each public shareholder will have the right to redeem his, her or its ordinary shares for cash if that shareholder votes against our initial business combination, timely exercises its shareholder redemption rights, the business combination is approved and completed, and the public shareholder holds its shares through the closing of our initial business combination. Such holder must both vote for such initial business combination and then properly exercise his, her or its shareholder redemption rights by notifying us of such election to redeem at the appropriate time, as described in the proxy materials, to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Redeeming shareholders may vote either for or against the business combination but will receive no pro rata interest income in the event they vote against such business combination (this will be the case with respect to both redemption proceeds if the proposal is approved and proceeds from our trust account if not) which will incentivize redeeming shareholders to vote for the business combination since redeeming shareholders voting for the business combination will be eligible to receive a pro rata share of the interest income earned by the trust not released to us for working capital purposes and as a result have a higher redemption price, and we will retain the difference to the extent of a liquidation of our trust account. Accordingly, if our initial business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such shareholder redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of public shareholders exercise their shareholder redemption rights than we expect. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our initial business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive initial business combination available to us. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete an initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate an initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate an initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after an initial business combination. Our sponsor controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our sponsor (including certain of our officers and directors) beneficially owns 20% of our issued and outstanding shares. While our sponsor does not intend to purchase units in our initial public offering, they are not prohibited from doing so or from purchasing units or our ordinary shares in the secondary market. If it does, our sponsor will have an even greater influence on matters requiring shareholder action. Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual general meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual general meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsor, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our sponsor, officers and directors will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of an initial business combination. 11 Our sponsor paid an aggregate of approximately $25,000, or approximately $0.01739 per ordinary share, for the sponsor’s ordinary shares and, accordingly, you will experience immediate and substantial dilution from the purchase of our shares. The difference between the initial public offering price per share and the pro forma net tangible book value per ordinary share after our initial public offering constitutes the dilution to you and the other investors in our initial public offering. Our sponsor acquired the sponsor’s ordinary shares at a nominal price, significantly contributing to this dilution. Following consummation of our initial public offering, new investors incurred an immediate and substantial dilution of approximately $1.90 per share (the difference between the pro forma net tangible book value per share of $8.10, and the initial offering price of $10.00 per unit). The sale and exercise of warrants, including the sponsor’s warrants, would cause the actual dilution to investors to be higher, particularly where a cashless exercise is utilized. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $15.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the issuance of our ordinary shares underlying the warrants and a current prospectus relating thereto. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your warrants at the then current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the sponsor’s warrants or sponsor’s warrants will be redeemable by us as long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer ordinary shares upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described elsewhere in the prospectus have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” In such event, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of ordinary shares equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of ordinary shares underlying the warrants and the difference between the “fair market value” and the exercise price of the warrants by (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average reported last sale price of our ordinary shares for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of ordinary shares received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 4,600,000 ordinary shares as part of the units offered by the prospectus. In addition, our sponsor purchased an aggregate of 4,340,000 sponsor’s warrants in a private placement that took place immediately prior to the consummation of the initial public offering. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect an initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience a substantial dilution of your holdings. 12 If our sponsor exercises its registration rights with respect to its ordinary shares, sponsor’s warrants, units purchased in our initial public offering or the aftermarket and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. The purchasers of sponsor’s ordinary shares and the sponsor’s warrants in our initial public offering and their permitted transferees will be entitled to registration rights pursuant to an agreement signed prior to the effective date of our initial public offering. The sponsor and the other holders of these securities are entitled to an aggregate of four demands that we register their respective securities. They can elect to exercise these rights with respect to sponsor’s ordinary shares, sponsor’s warrants, any of the units purchased in our initial public offering or the aftermarket (including ordinary shares and warrants comprising any of the units and shares underlying any of the warrants) after the consummation of our initial business combination, provided that they may not offer or sell any of the related securities under that registration statement until, at the earliest, those securities are released from escrow, under the terms of the escrow agreement, and provided, further, that the estimated market value of the securities to be registered is at least $500,000 in the aggregate. The purchasers of sponsor’s ordinary shares in our initial public offering and the sponsor’s warrants and their permitted transferees also have certain “piggy-back” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed pursuant to this agreement. In general, we will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. However, the sponsor’s ordinary shares, will continue to be held in escrow and to be subject to transfer restrictions until (i) with respect to 50% of such shares, when the closing price of our ordinary shares exceeds $11.50 for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period following the consummation of our initial business combination, and (ii) with respect to 50% of such shares, when the closing price of our ordinary shares exceeds $15.00 for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period following the consummation of our initial business combination, provided, however, that in any event all of the foregoing shares shall be released from escrow upon the first anniversary of the initial public offering, and in any case, if, following a business combination, we engage in a subsequent transaction resulting in our shareholders having the right to exchange their shares for cash or other securities. Considering that we have repurchased 287,500of the sponsor’s ordinary shares, if all these holders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then, there will be an additional 1,150,000 ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into an initial business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our ordinary shares. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. Federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. In addition, some of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2010 Revision) of the Cayman Islands and other statutes (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders (including shareholder derivative actions) and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the U.S. Moreover, the Cayman Islands has a less prescriptive body of securities laws as compared to the U.S., and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the U.S. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the U.S., the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize a foreign judgment as the basis for a claim at common law in the Cayman Islands provided such judgment: • is given by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction; • imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; • is final; • is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and • was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of U.S. public companies, including with respect to our business combination. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: • The rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K (although we have agreed with the underwriters of our initial public offering to comply with the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act prescribing the requirements and filing deadlines for Current Reports on Form 8-K and will file reports on Form 6-K complying with those rules and regulations); 13 • The sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • Provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • The sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their ordinary share ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, if we continue to remain a foreign private issuer, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the U.S. In particular, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Because of this exemption, at the time we seek approval from our shareholders of our initial business combination, we will not be required to file with the SEC preliminary proxy solicitation materials regarding our business combination, but rather will prepare and deliver proxy solicitation materials to our shareholders in accordance with: (i) Cayman Islands law, and (ii) the relevant provisions of our memorandum and articles of association, and, as required, file such materials with the SEC after mailing. Although we anticipate that such materials will contain many of the same disclosures as proxy materials prepared in conformance with the U.S. proxy rules, investors are cautioned that such materials will not have been reviewed by the SEC and may not have all of the material disclosures required under U.S. proxy rules. If we are deemed to be a taxpayer in a particular jurisdiction, it may increase our tax liability. Due to our activities spanning several countries, there is the possibility that we may be deemed to be taxable in a given jurisdiction, which may increase our tax liability, reduce our after tax income and reduce the proceeds held in the trust account. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of the prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General”) of our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our actual PFIC status for our current (2010) taxable year may depend on whether we qualify for the PFIC start-up exception (see the section of the prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules”). If we do not complete a business combination by the end of our current taxable year, and we have gross income for our current taxable year, we likely will be a PFIC for our current taxable year unless we complete a business combination in our 2011 taxable year and are not treated as a PFIC for either our 2011 or 2012 taxable year. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for our current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of the prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete an initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. Since we have invested the proceeds in a trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our current activities subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be maintained by the trustee and invested by the trust account agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our initial public offering is not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, liquidation of the trust account and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public shareholders. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete an initial business combination, including: 14 • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. There is currently a limited market for our securities and an active market for our securities may not develop, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. There is currently a limited market for our securities. Investors therefore have limited access to information about prior market history on which to base their investment decision. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and sustained. Because we must furnish our shareholders with financial statements of the target business prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS or reconciled to U.S. GAAP, we may not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide shareholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials we deliver to our shareholders to assist them in assessing our initial business combination. We will deliver proxy solicitation materials with disclosure that we believe would have been required to be provided to shareholders had we not been a foreign private issuer but still had a class of equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. However, as a foreign private issuer, we are not required and do not intend to file our proxy solicitation materials with the SEC for review. In all likelihood, the financial statements included in the proxy solicitation materials will need to be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and/or IFRS. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and/or IFRS or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and/or IFRS or reconciled to U.S. GAAP. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited as early as our Annual Report on Form 20-F or Form 10-K, as applicable, for the year ending December 31, 2011. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or shareholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also could, depending on the size of our public float, require that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. If adjustments are made to the warrants, you may be deemed to receive a taxable distribution without the receipt of any cash. Holders of units or warrants may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received taxable distributions if adjustments are made to the warrants, even though the holders would have not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustments. In certain circumstances, the failure to provide for such an adjustment may also result in a constructive distribution to the holders of units or ordinary shares. See “Taxation — United States Federal Taxation — U.S. Holders — Possible Constructive Distributions.” An investment in our initial public offering may involve adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences because the redemption or liquidation price per share is greater than an investor’s initial tax basis in an ordinary share. There is a risk that an investor’s entitlement to receive payments in excess of the investor’s initial tax basis in our ordinary shares (see “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Allocation of Purchase Price and Characterization of a Unit”) upon exercise of the investor’s redemption right or upon our liquidation of our trust account will result in constructive income to the investor, which could affect the timing and character of income recognition and result in U.S. federal income tax liability to the investor without the investor’s receipt of cash from us. Prospective investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors with respect to these tax risks, as well as the specific tax consequences to them of purchasing, holding or disposing of our ordinary shares, warrants, or units. 15 An investor may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences in the event the IRS were to disagree with the U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. As described in the section of the prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General,” we have not sought a ruling from the IRS as to any U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. The IRS may disagree with the descriptions of U.S. federal income tax consequences contained herein, and its determination may be upheld by a court. Any such determination could subject an investor or our company to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences that would be different than those described herein. Accordingly, each prospective investor is urged to consult a tax advisor with respect to the specific tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our units, ordinary shares and warrants, including the applicability and effect of state, local or non-U.S. tax laws, as well as U.S. federal tax laws. Risks Associated with Acquiring and Operating a Business in Emerging Market Countries If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We do not intend to focus our search on target businesses located in the United States. Accordingly, it is likely that we will effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency redemption or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • laws governing the manner in which future business combinations may be effected; • exchange listing and/or delisting requirements; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • rates of inflation; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. We do not intend to focus our search on target businesses located in the United States. Accordingly, it is likely that we will effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. As such, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S federal securities laws. Because of the costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Managing a business, operations, personnel or assets in another country is challenging and costly. Any management that we may have (whether based abroad or in the U.S.) may be inexperienced in cross-border business practices and unaware of significant differences in accounting rules, legal regimes and labor practices. Even with a seasoned and experienced management team, the costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations, personnel and assets can be significant (and much higher than in a purely domestic business) and may negatively impact our financial and operational performance. 16 If social unrest, acts of terrorism, regime changes, changes in laws and regulations, political upheaval, or policy changes or enactments occur in a country in which we may operate after we effect a business combination, it may result in a negative impact on our business. Political events in another country may significantly affect our business, assets or operations. Social unrest, acts of terrorism, regime changes, changes in laws and regulations, political upheaval, and policy changes or enactments could negatively impact our business in a particular country. Because many countries have difficult and unpredictable legal systems and underdeveloped laws and regulations that are unclear and subject to corruption and inexperience, it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Many countries have difficult and unpredictable legal systems and underdeveloped laws and regulations that are unclear and subject to corruption and inexperience. Our ability to seek and enforce legal protections, including with respect to intellectual property and other property rights, or to defend ourselves with regard to legal actions taken against us in a given country, may be difficult or impossible, which could adversely impact our operations, assets or financial condition. Rules and regulations in many countries are often ambiguous or open to differing interpretation by responsible individuals and agencies at the municipal, state, regional and federal levels. The attitudes and actions of such individuals and agencies are often difficult to predict and inconsistent. Delay with respect to the enforcement of particular rules and regulations, including those relating to customs, tax, environmental and labor, could cause serious disruption to operations abroad and negatively impact our results. If relations between the United States and a foreign government deteriorate, it could cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and foreign governments could be subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, the United States may announce its intention to impose quotas on certain imports. Such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the foreign government in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Changes in political conditions in foreign countries and changes in the state of U.S. relations with such countries are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis for investors in our initial public offering to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between the United States and a foreign country in which we acquire a target business or move our principal manufacturing operations. 