Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the preceding “Business” section of this Report, before engaging in any transaction in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects, and cause the value of our securities to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Generally: Our financial condition creates doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. If we do not continue as a going concern, investors may lose their entire investment. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. We had negative cash flows from operating activities of $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and an accumulated deficit of $119 million at December 31, 2013. While we had negative working capital of $8.0 million at December 31, 2013, our current assets at December 31, 2013 included $10.6 million of accounts receivable and $1.1 million of advances to aggregators. The independent auditors’ report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of the date this Report was filed with the Commission, management expects that our cash flows from operations and remaining unrestricted cash will not be sufficient to fund our current operations through 2014. We will require significant additional capital in order to continue our existing business operations and to fund our obligations assumed by the Company as a result of our acquisition of Unified Payments. We currently believe that we will require an additional $10 million in financing to continue operations as currently conducted, continue our payment processing businesses and to pay for other currently anticipated capital expenditures over the next 12 months. We have historically been dependent upon our directors and majority stockholders (including entities directly or indirectly controlled by them), and/or other affiliates of the Company, to fund our operations and we are exploring additional sources of financing in order to meet our financial requirements. Additional funds may be raised through debt financing and/or the issuance of equity securities, there being no assurance that any type of financing on terms satisfactory to us will be available or otherwise occur. 19 Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether we generate revenues or cash flows from operations and may be secured by substantially all of our assets. Any equity financing or debt financing that requires the issuance of equity securities or warrants to the lender would cause the percentage ownership by our current stockholders to be diluted, which dilution may be substantial. Also, any additional equity securities issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If such financings are not available when required or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects and may ultimately require us to suspend or cease operations, which could cause investors to lose the entire amount of their investment. We have a significant amount of outstanding receivables, which, if not collected, may have material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and future business prospects. Our current assets as of December 31, 2013 totaled $12,689,171. This amount includes approximately $10.6 million of outstanding receivables (representing 84% of our total current assets at December 31, 2013), and $1.1 million of outstanding advances to aggregators. Aggregators are businesses that contract for content from content providers and provide aggregated processing volume to TOT Money. As of the date of filing this Report with the Commission, we were not aware of any additional potential issues with the collectability of our outstanding receivables, if any significant portion of our outstanding receivables were not collected it may have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our future business prospects. Our management has identified a material weakness over payments to aggregators. Historically, we did not maintain appropriate control surrounding the billing and advances to aggregators in our TOT Money Russian operation. As a result, we are migrating our billing system from SDSP Group to a TOT Platform, our proprietary billing system. Our former General Director is no longer providing any further support or assisting us with retrieval of information from the current billing system. We have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. For that reason, it would be difficult for a potential investor to judge our prospects for success. We launched the operations of our mobile payment processing business during the third quarter of 2012. As a result, there is limited historical information available upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Our limited operating history also makes the prediction of our future operating results, operating costs, and prospects difficult. If we cannot compete effectively, we will lose business. We believe our mobile payment processing business is positioned to be competitive in our target markets. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues from our existing operations, or that our proposed future operations will be implemented successfully. Our principal competitive considerations include: ·financial resources to allocate to proper marketing and sales efforts; ·the ability to develop and maintain our operations, applications and technologies; ·the ability to effectively implement our business plans and strategies; ·establishing our brand name; and ·financial resources to support working capital needs and required capital investments. The markets in which we operate are very competitive, and many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are. The markets for mobile payment processing are very competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Some of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Given their capital resources, the large companies with which we compete, or may compete in the future, are in a better position to substantially increase their research and development efforts or to withstand any significant reduction in orders by customers in our markets. Such larger companies typically have broader product lines and market focus and thus are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, some of our competitors have been in operation much longer than we have and therefore may have more long-standing and established relationships with our current and potential domestic and foreign customers. We would be at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors bring their products to market earlier, if their products are more technologically capable than ours, or if any of our competitors’ products or technologies becomes preferred in the industry. Moreover, we cannot assure you that existing or potential customers will not develop their own products, or acquire companies with products that are competitive with our products. Any of these competitive threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operations are conducted primarily in Russia, making them subject to political uncertainties relating to Russia and U.S.-Russian relations. Much of our present operations are being conducted in Russia. Our electronic payments operations conducted in Russia are subject to various political risks and uncertainties inherent in Russia. If U.S.-Russia relations deteriorate, including, without limitation, over a conflict related to Ukraine; the U.S. government may decide to impose sanctions or other legal restrictions on U.S. businesses doing business in Russia. If this should happen, our electronic payments operations conducted in Russia could be scaled back or shut down, which may require additional funding to penetrate or expand alternative electronic payments markets outside of Russia. In addition, if U.S.-Russia relations deteriorate, including, without limitation, over a conflict related to Ukraine, general economic conditions in Russia, or increases in interest rates in Russia, could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions in Russia made using electronic payments. Further, consumer purchases of discretionary items could generally decline in Russia due to potential adverse effect on disposable income in Russia. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending in Russia could result in a decrease in our revenue and negatively affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our management has identified continued material weaknesses in our internal controls as of December 31, 2013, which, if not properly remedied, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As described in Item 9A of this Report, management has identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013: (i) inadequate policies and procedures regarding the design of the control and formal written documentation; (ii) inadequate segregation of duties related to job responsibilities for initiating, authorizing, and recording of certain transactions; (iii) because we recently added certain new directors and executive management and recently changed the composition of our subsidiaries, there has been insufficient time to establish adequate Best of Practice procedures; (iv) as a result of our relatively small accounting staff and not having the required infrastructure for meeting the demands of being a U.S. public company, we have identified deficiencies in our internal controls within our key business processes, particularly with respect to the design of quarterly accounting, financial statements close, consolidation and external financial reporting procedures; (v) we lack general computer controls surrounding the billing and financial reporting system in one of our Russian subsidiaries; and (vi) our management has limited ability to monitor the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls. These material weaknesses impede the ability of management to adequately oversee our internal control over financial reporting on a consistent basis. Management intends to focus its remediation efforts in the near term on designing revised accounting and financial reporting policies and procedures that will help ensure that adequate internal controls over financial reporting are met. Additionally, these revised procedures will be formally documented and procedures will focus on transaction processing, period-end account analyses and providing for additional review and monitoring procedures and periodically assess the need for additional accounting resources as our business develops and resources permit. If we are not able to adequately address the material weaknesses in our internal controls, it is possible that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be timely prevented or detected. Any failure in preventing or detecting a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial results could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and on our results of operations, could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing as needed and could have additional material adverse consequences. 21 Acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our stockholders and other harmful consequences. We have built our current business primarily through acquisitions of intellectual property and other assets, and we intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. On April 16, 2013, certain subsidiaries of TOT Group acquired substantially all of the business assets of Unified Payments, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Unified Payments”), a provider of comprehensive turnkey, payment-processing solutions to small and medium size business owners (merchants) and independent sales organizations across the United States. See Note 4 for additional information regarding this acquisition. Most recently, on June 24, 2013, TOT Group, through its newly formed subsidiary Aptito, LLC (“Aptito”) acquired substantially all of the business assets of Aptito.com, Inc, a New York corporation, a new generation of smart, customer engaged, patent-pending payments platform, mobile Point of Sale (“mPOS”), mobile commerce application and self-ordering Apple® iPad®-based kiosk. See Note 4 for additional information regarding this acquisition. . Future acquisitions could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Foreign acquisitions also involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not accurately assess the value or prospects of acquisition candidates, and the anticipated benefits from our future or even past acquisitions may not materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, the incurrence of significant amounts of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could negatively affect our financial condition. We are dependent upon certain key relationships. If any of our key relationships were to deteriorate, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success, particularly the success of our payment processing business, is dependent, in part, upon industry relationships of certain of our directors, including our director, Kenges Rakishev and our chief executive officer Mr. Firer. If we were to lose the services of Mr. Rakishev and/or Mr. Firer, or if the industry relationships of Mr. Firer on which we rely were to deteriorate, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. To our knowledge, Mr. Rakishev and/or Mr. Firer currently do not have any plans to retire or leave us in the near future, and we are not aware of any material adverse developments in Mr. Firer’s industry relationships. We do not have “key person” insurance on the lives of Mr. Rakishev and/or Mr. Firer or any other member of our management team. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, competitors may create and market products and services similar to ours. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by third parties. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon the proprietary nature of our technologies and software platforms. We generally rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law to protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual properties. . Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies through trade secrets, trademarks, patents and license and other agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, if we license our software to non-U.S. countries, because of differences in foreign laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual properties may not receive the same degree of protection in non-U.S. countries as they would in the United States. We may not always be able to successfully protect or enforce our proprietary properties against competitors, which may materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently utilize existing technologies to develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours, which also could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 In addition, although we do not believe that our intellectual properties infringe the rights of others and while to date we have not been subject to such claims, we may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by other parties alleging that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination in any intellectual property claim could require us to pay damages and/or stop using our technologies and other material found to be in violation of another party’s rights and could prevent us from licensing our technologies to others. In order to avoid these restrictions, we may have to seek a license. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, could require us to pay significant license fees and may significantly increase our operating expenses. A license also may not be available to us at all. As a result, we may be required to use and/or develop non-infringing alternatives, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot obtain a license or develop alternatives for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our technologies and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, from time to time we may be engaged in disputes regarding the licensing of our intellectual property rights, including matters related to the terms of our licensing arrangements. These types of disputes can be asserted by our licensees or prospective licensees or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief or in regulatory actions. Requests for monetary and injunctive remedies asserted in claims like these could be material and could have a significant impact on our business prospects. Any disputes with our licensees, potential licensees or other third parties could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results. We earn revenues and interest income, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In the year ended December 31, 2013, we used two functional currencies - the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble - in addition to the U.S. dollar and derived more than 21% of our total net revenues from operations outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate net revenues, interest income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect the amounts of our net revenues, interest income, operating expenses and the value of balance sheet items, including intercompany assets and obligations. Because our operations are concentrated in Russia and Ukraine, our exchange rate risk is highly sensitive to the prevailing value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar against the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble, may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretations, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet and companies transmitting user information and payments via text message or other electronic means, many of which are still evolving and the interpretation of which are often uncertain. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and/or fines. The services of TOT Money to mobile phone carriers also are subject to certain of the rules and policies of such carriers and ongoing contractual covenants with such carriers, the violation of which may result in penalties and/or fines and possible termination of TOT Money’s services. For additional information, see “Business Description - Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 23 Poor perception of our brand, business or industry could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in part on our reputation within our industries and with our clients and consumers. We may be the subject of unflattering reports in blogs, video blogs and the media about our business and our business model. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to obtain and retain contracts with mobile phone carriers, content providers, advertisers and other customers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Our business is subject to the risks of hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from hurricanes, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications outages, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. Our U.S. corporate offices are located in Miami, Florida, which is an area that is at high risk of hurricane and flood damage. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. The servers that we use through various third party service providers are not located in Miami, Florida but may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Such service providers may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, and our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt our customers’ respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. We are effectively controlled by Mike Zoi, our majority stockholder and a member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Zoi’s interests may conflict with the interests of our outside stockholders, who may be unable to influence management and exercise control over our business. Mike Zoi, our majority stockholder and a member of our Board of Directors, owns, in combination with the holdings of entities that he controls, approximately 47.8% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of April 1, 2014. As a result, and in addition to having de-facto control over all key elements of our business, Mr. Zoi can be viewed as having de-facto control over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including but not limited to: (i) electing and removing directors; (ii) amending or preventing amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; (iii) selling all or substantially all of our assets; and (iv) merging with another entity. This concentration of ownership could be disadvantageous to stockholders with interests that might vary from those of Mr. Zoi and adversely affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we currently incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses not incurred by private companies. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop, implement and maintain the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by federal statutes, Commission rules, other government regulations affecting public companies and/or stock exchange compliance requirements. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop, implement and maintain appropriate internal controls, processes and reporting procedures, which will increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 24 Risks Related to Our Mobile Payments and Transaction Processing Business: Failure to successfully continue developing and expand our payment processing business may harm our revenue and business prospects. We recently launched our mobile payment processing operations in Russia during the third quarter of 2012 through our Russian subsidiary TOT Money. Certain of TOT Money’s competitors have been in business longer than TOT Money and have significantly greater financial and other resources than TOT Money. In addition, in order to successfully increase our business in the payment processing market in Russia and expand our payment processing business into other emerging markets, we must convince mobile phone carriers and content providers to use TOT Money’s services over competitive platforms that may already be in use. Many potential clients may worry about potential disadvantages associated with switching payment processing vendors, such as a loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. Failure to successfully continue developing TOT Money’s payment processing operations, maintain TOT Money’s existing contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers and enter into additional contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers to use TOT Money’s services may harm our revenue and business prospects. Our future growth depends, in part, upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion into new markets, the emergence of additional markets for payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing payment processing markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues. Furthermore, in response to market developments, we may expand into new geographical markets and foreign countries in which we do not currently have any operating experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand in such markets due to our lack of experience and the multitude of risks associated with global operations or lack of appropriate regulatory approvals. We may not recoup our advances to aggregators. Our advances to aggregators are unsecured and we do not have financial statements or bank references to complete a full credit review of each aggregator, which increases our risk of not recouping such advances. At December 31, 2013, our outstanding advances to aggregators were $1.1 million net. Aggregators are businesses that contract for content from hundreds or thousands of content providers and provide aggregated processing volume to TOT Money. Our advances to aggregators are unsecured and, while we have a history of transaction volume with most of our aggregators, we do not obtain financial statements or bank references to complete a full credit review of each aggregator. In addition, we transact business with new aggregators from time to time with whom we do not have a history of transaction volume. Financial problems with a particular aggregator could result in our not recouping advances that we have made to that aggregator. Furthermore, if we discontinue our business with a particular aggregator and the aggregator does not provide sufficient transaction volume to repay advances made to that aggregator, we have increased risk of not recouping the advances made to that aggregator. For these and/or other reasons, we may not recoup our advances made to aggregators. If we do not recoup all of our advances to aggregators, it will result in our incurring losses. We rely on third-party processors and service providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with several large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. We also outsource to third parties other services, such as reorganizing and accumulating daily transaction data on a merchant-by-merchant and card issuer-by-card issuer basis and forwarding the accumulated data to the relevant bankcard associations. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors, and we do not have long-term contracts with most of them. Typically, our contracts with these third parties are for one-year and are subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. We rely on bank sponsors, which have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bankcard transactions. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our business. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to belong to and directly access the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations. Visa and MasterCard operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. We are currently registered with Visa and MasterCard through the sponsorship of banks that are members of the card associations. The principal sponsoring bank through which we process the significant majority of our transactions is BMO Harris Bank. If we or our bank sponsors fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard payment card associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated, and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard. Substantially all of the transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If we or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa or MasterCard payment card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration. The termination of our registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration could prevent us from providing transactional processing services. We periodically experience increases in interchange and other related costs, and if we cannot pass these increases along to our merchants, our profit margins will decline. We pay interchange fees and assessments to issuing banks through the card associations for each transaction we process using their credit and debit cards. From time to time, the card associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsoring banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us. In addition, our sponsoring banks may seek to increase their Visa and MasterCard sponsorship fees to us, all of which are based upon the dollar amount of the payment transactions we process. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in merchant discount, our profit margins will decline. 25 Our products and services could become less competitive or obsolete if we fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology. The markets for our products and services are characterized by technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Advances in technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and services and delivery formats and any such change in preferences may be rapid. Clients may choose to move or develop equivalent services in-house. If we fail to enhance our current products and services and develop new products and services in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer preferences, our business could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We could experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services and product and service enhancements, due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data or adapting to particular operating environments. Software errors or other defect errors in our products and services could affect the ability of our products and services to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of our products or services and could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations. To acquire and retain merchant accounts, we depend on ISGs that do not serve us exclusively. We rely on the efforts of ISGs to market our services to merchants seeking to establish a credit card processing relationship. ISGs are companies that seek to introduce to us, as well as our competitors, newly established and existing small merchants, including retailers, restaurants and other service providers. Generally, our agreements with ISGs are not exclusive and they have the right to refer merchants to other providers of transaction payment processing services. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our existing ISGs and to recruit and establish new relationships with other ISGs could adversely affect our revenues and internal growth and increase our merchant attrition. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and could damage our reputation. We process, store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, credit or debit card numbers and bank account numbers, and we may have liability if we fail to protect this data in accordance with applicable laws and our client’s specifications. The loss of data could result in significant fines and sanctions by our clients or governmental bodies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the Internet and could infiltrate our systems, which might disrupt our services and make them unavailable. In addition, a significant cybersecurity breach could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of clients. We have been in the past and could be in the future, subject to breaches of security by hackers. It is possible that our encryption of data and other protective measures may not prevent unauthorized access. Although we have not to date incurred material losses or liabilities as a result of those breaches, a future breach of our system may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment of fines and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit or debit card or bank account information or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients from using electronic payments generally and our services specifically, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits and/or result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under applicable laws or by our clients. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our clients and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and consumer purchasing habits. Deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets where we operate, or increases in interest rates in such markets, may adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and negatively affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, and, if our revenues are below our seasonal norms during our historically stronger quarters, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically, revenues have been weaker during the first quarter of the calendar year and stronger during the second, third and fourth quarters. If, for any reason, our revenues are below seasonal norms during the second, third or fourth quarter, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. New and potential governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to provide, or the value of, the services we currently provide to our merchants. Due to the increasing public concern over consumer privacy rights, governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, and are considering adopting, additional laws and regulations restricting the purchase, sale and sharing of personal information about customers. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires non-affiliated third-party service providers to financial institutions to take certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. We believe our present activities fall under exceptions to the consumer notice and opt-out requirements contained in this law for third-party service providers to financial institutions. However, the laws governing privacy generally remain unsettled. Even in areas where there has been some legislative action, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other consumer statutes, it is difficult to determine whether and how existing and proposed privacy laws or changes to existing privacy laws will apply to our business. Limitations on our ability to access and use customer information could adversely affect our ability to provide the services we currently offer to our merchants or impair the value of these services. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the use of personal information gathered using the Internet. Some proposals would require proprietary online service providers and website owners to establish privacy policies. Congress has also considered privacy legislation that could further regulate the use of consumer information obtained over the Internet or in other ways. Our compliance with these privacy laws and related regulations could materially affect our operations. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws could: ·create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services; ·restrict or limit our ability to sell certain products and services to certain customers; ·limit our ability to collect and to use merchant and cardholder data; or ·increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased operating costs; Any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to pay federal, state or local taxes on transaction processing, it could negatively impact our profit margins. Transaction processing companies may become subject to federal, state or local taxation of certain portions of their fees charged to merchants for their services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are unable to pass this tax expense through to our merchant clients, or are unable to produce increased cash flow to offset such taxes, these taxes would negatively impact our profit margins. We are the subject of various legal proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are involved in various litigation matters. The Company may, from time to time, also be involved in or be the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations. If the Company is unsuccessful in its defense in the litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, it may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change its business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information about the Company’s legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings.” 26 Risks Related to Our Securities: The historic price of our common stock has been volatile and the future market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. Further, the limited trading volume in our common stock contributes significantly to the high volatility in the market price of our common stock. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Since trading began in the common stock of the Company on October 3, 2012 (the trading day following the closing of our merger with Net Element) and through April 11, 2014, the per-share market price for our common stock has ranged from $1.90 to $12.25. Any future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to sell shares when they want and at prices they find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the trading volume in our common stock is limited, which contributes significantly to that volatility, and we cannot assure you that a larger or more liquid market will ever be developed or maintained. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for holders of our common stock to sell shares when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The following factors, among others, may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock: · the fact that our payment processing business first launched operations and began generating revenue during the third quarter of 2012; · our ability to maintain existing, and secure additional, contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers to use our payment processing services; · the effects of increased competition on our business; · our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and enter new markets; · the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending; · our ability to protect our intellectual property; · our ability to keep pace with changes in technology; · the success of our sales and marketing efforts; · costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and related judgments or settlements; · changes in government licensing and regulation affecting our business; · interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; · the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; · our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers; · the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · our ability to successfully manage and integrate any acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies; · the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; · changes in consumer behavior; · our ability to increase the effectiveness of our internal controls; and · changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We may sell equity securities in the future, which would cause dilution. We may sell equity securities in the future to obtain funds for general corporate, working capital, acquisitions or other purposes. We may sell these securities at a discount to the market price. Any future sales of equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders, possibly reducing the value of their investment. 27 We may not be able to continue to meet the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected, and the liquidity of our stock reduced and our ability to obtain financing could be impaired. We are currently in compliance with all of the listing standards for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, but we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. Any delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, reduce the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our stockholders. In addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. For these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 