D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We operate a substantial majority of our business in Beijing and our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable circumstances or events in Beijing. We currently operate a substantial majority of our business in Beijing. We expanded our business into other geographic regions but we expect that we will continue to generate a majority of our revenues from Beijing in the foreseeable future. Changes in local economic, competitive and governmental policies and other circumstances in Beijing may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, on December 23, 2010, the Beijing municipal government issued a number of new measures, which became effective immediately, aimed at curbing traffic congestion in Beijing, including the Provisional Regulations on the Quantity Control of Small Passenger Vehicles and its Implementing Rules, or the Provisional Regulations. Under the Provisional Regulations, the issuance of new license plates in Beijing is subject to a quota that will be published annually by the Beijing municipal government. Such quota will be allocated 88% to first-time individual buyers and 12% to business buyers on a monthly basis through a lottery system. Purchasers of automobiles wishing to replace old vehicles may continue to use the previous license plates and are therefore not subject to the quota. This was the first time that the Beijing municipal government had adopted a quota system for new license plates, and the current annual quota is 240,000. The overall new vehicle sales in the Beijing market have decreased significantly since the Provisional Regulations became effective. Our total number of vehicles sold in 2011 decreased compared with 2010 and our results of operations were adversely affected as well. In addition, effective from April 1, 2010, the parking rates in business and commercial districts of the Beijing metropolitan area increased significantly under a new policy of the Beijing municipal government, which may undermine consumers’ desire to purchase new vehicles and may have an adverse effect on automobile sales. As a further example, effective from October 11, 2008, the Beijing municipal government introduced an alternate automobile license plate system to ease traffic congestion in the downtown area. Under this system, on every weekday, 20% of the vehicles in Beijing are prohibited from being operated on roads in the downtown area, depending on the last digit on the vehicle’s license plate. This system may have undermined consumers’ desire to purchase new vehicles. Any similar adverse conditions or occurrences in Beijing, or in other areas into which we may expand, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the franchises awarded by automobile manufacturers, and if we fail to renew one or more of our franchise agreements from such vehicle manufacturers on favorable terms, or at all, or if one or more of our franchise agreements are terminated, our inventory supply would be significantly disrupted and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Each of our dealerships operates under a franchise granted by the manufacturer (or manufacturer-authorized distributor). Our franchise agreements are non-exclusive, must be renewed periodically and typically have a term of one or two years. Our dealerships may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, sell new vehicles and display vehicle manufacturers’ trademarks only to the extent permitted under franchise agreements. As a result of our dependence on these franchise rights, manufacturers exercise a significant level of influence over our day-to-day operations. The terms of our franchise agreements, together with manufacturers’ dealership manuals, service manuals and operating standards which are often referenced in these franchise agreements, govern key aspects of our operations and capital spending. Such franchise agreements and dealership manuals typically contain provisions and standards relating to: · the achievement of certain sales and customer satisfaction targets; · inventories of new vehicles and manufacturer replacement parts; · the maintenance of necessary net working capital; · facilities and placement of signage; · procedures for inspection, testing and evaluation of the dealership by the manufacturer; · advertising, marketing, deposit and warranty practices; 9 Table of Contents · products authorized to be offered to customers; · after-sales services; · data sharing regarding market trends and customer statistics; · dealership management; · personnel training; · information systems; and · monthly and annual sales and financial reporting to the manufacturer. Our compliance with these requirements is closely monitored by the manufacturers. If any failure to comply with that is not cured within a specified period of time, it may give rise to early termination of the franchise agreement by manufacturers. Most of our franchise agreements provide the manufacturer with the right to terminate the agreement or refuse to renew it after the expiration of the term of the agreement under specified circumstances. Certain franchise agreements allow the automobile manufacturers to terminate the agreements under any circumstances as long as a prior written notice is given. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our existing franchise agreements on favorable terms, or at all. Specifically, many of our franchise agreements provide that the manufacturer may terminate the agreement if the dealership undergoes a change of control. These provisions may provide manufacturers with superior bargaining positions in the event they seek to terminate our franchise agreements or renegotiate the agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Our supply of inventory could be significantly disrupted and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise agreements are terminated or not renewed, our franchise rights become compromised or our operations become restricted due to the terms of our franchise agreements. We may not succeed in implementing our growth strategies. One of our primary strategies is to consolidate and retain our position as a leading automobile dealer in Beijing and expand into other regional markets in China. Our expansion plan includes increasing the size and scope of our dealership network, growing our after-sales businesses and entering into car rental and used car sales businesses. Our growth strategies may not be implemented successfully due to a number of risks, including our inability to: · determine the proper magnitude and prospects of our proposed expansion and effectively execute such expansion plan; · hire, train and maintain sufficient qualified staff; · obtain adequate financial resources; · enter into new dealership agreements with automakers; · obtain appropriate licenses, permits and approvals from relevant PRC government authorities on a timely basis; · identify desirable locations for our dealerships and showrooms; · negotiate the terms of new leases or land use rights for properties in desirable locations; or · obtain, evaluate the condition and potential resale value of and refurbish used cars for resale. In addition, various factors beyond our control may significantly influence the results of our growth strategies, including general economic conditions in China, particularly in the automobile market and the automobile dealership industry and the specific geographical areas in which we operate. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth or profit margins at historical levels or we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. Should any or all of the risks in relation to our expansion plan materialize, our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our dealerships depend upon new vehicle sales and, therefore, our success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular lines of vehicles our dealerships carry. New vehicle sales generate the majority of our total revenues and lead to sales of higher-margin services, such as automobile repair and maintenance services and the arrangement of insurance and financing for customers. Our dealerships depend in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, our new vehicle sales consist only of seven brands, which are Audi, FAW-Volkswagen, Toyota, FAW-Mazda, Chang An-Mazda, Shanghai-Volkswagen and GAC-Honda. In particular, Audi and FAW-Volkswagen accounted for 35.9% and 19.6%, respectively, of our revenues from new vehicle sales in 2011. If one or more vehicle lines that separately or collectively account for a significant percentage of our new vehicle sales suffer from decreasing consumer demand, our new vehicle sales and related revenues may be materially reduced. If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers, our profitability may be affected. Our new automobile sales are influenced by the manufacturers’ abilities to anticipate changes in consumer tastes, preferences and requirements, including those driven by environmental or popular trends, and to manufacture and deliver to us in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, a desirable, high quality and price-competitive mix of new vehicles to sell to our customers. The most popular vehicles usually generate the highest profit margins and are frequently difficult to obtain from the manufacturers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular models, our profitability may be adversely affected. Sales of less desirable models may reduce our profit margins. Several manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchise dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. If our dealerships experience prolonged sales slumps relative to our competitors, these manufacturers may cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles, particularly newer, more popular vehicles, from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled could lead to reduced sales during those periods. We may not obtain additional franchises and our new dealerships may not initially benefit from economies of scale. We plan to increase the size and scope of our network by establishing new dealerships and acquiring dealerships from other parties in Beijing and other geographical regions in China. To implement this strategy, we are required to apply for franchises from relevant automobile manufacturers for any additional dealerships we intend to establish. In addition, franchise agreements between automobile dealerships and manufacturers generally provide that changes in ownership of automobile dealerships will require the prior approval of the relevant automobile manufacturers. Accordingly, our acquisition of automobile dealerships is subject to the approval of relevant automobile manufacturers. Automobile manufacturers have complete discretion in approving an application to set up new dealerships or an acquisition of existing dealerships and will typically consider such factors as the applicants’ or acquirers’ operating history, financial resources, sales performance records, customer satisfaction records and/or geographical distribution. Furthermore, some automobile manufacturers may limit the number of franchises or shares of franchises or vehicle sales maintained by an affiliated dealership group on a national, regional or local basis. Manufacturers may also tailor these types of restrictions to particular dealership groups. Generally it takes three to six months to apply for and obtain new franchises from automobile manufacturers. It generally takes a shorter period of time for automobile manufacturers to grant approvals for the acquisition of existing dealerships. However, such approvals may also take significantly longer time. Automobile manufacturers may not approve our new franchise applications or acquisitions of dealerships from other parties, which could materially compromise our growth strategies and business prospects. In addition, even if automobile manufacturers approve our new franchise applications, we expect that our revenues and profit margins from the new dealerships will be lower during their ramp-up period and such new dealerships will not be able to enjoy the benefits of economies of scale at the initial stage of their operations. Adverse conditions affecting one or more manufacturers may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The success of each of our dealerships depends to a great extent on our vehicle manufacturers’ reputation, financial condition, marketing efforts, vehicle design, production capabilities and management. Adverse conditions affecting these and other important aspects of the manufacturers’ operations and public relations may adversely affect our ability to market their automobiles to the public, and may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not continue to receive purchase rebates from automobile manufacturers if we fail to meet an automobile manufacturer’s sales, operational, customer satisfaction and other requirements or if an automobile manufacturer changes its rebate policy. We receive purchase rebates from automobile manufacturers based on evaluation of our operations under certain performance indicators, including sales volume, satisfaction of sales targets, operating track records and customer satisfaction, which account for a significant portion of our profit on new vehicles sales. If we fail to achieve satisfactory levels of performance as measured by such 11 Table of Contents indicators in the future, the rebates we receive from automobile manufacturers may decrease. In addition, there can be no assurance that the automobile manufacturers will continue to grant us rebates at similar levels or at all. Should some or all of the manufacturers cease to offer such rebates, decrease the magnitude of such rebates or alter the conditions by which such rebates are granted, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability may be materially and negatively affected. Our ability to meet our customers’ demand for new vehicles, spare parts and automobile accessories depend in part on our ability to maintain a reasonable level of inventory of these products. We must maintain a reasonable level of inventory of new automobiles, spare parts and automobile accessories in terms of their quantity and selection to satisfy our customers’ needs in a timely manner. We actively control and monitor our inventory to achieve its turnover efficiency, principally by lowering the level of our slow-moving inventory and increasing the level of our fast-moving inventory. If our inventory level is too high, we may be required to increase our working capital and incur additional financing cost. If our inventory level is too low, our ability to satisfy our customers’ needs may be compromised, which may harm our reputation and result in lost revenues. We depend on third parties for the supply of certain spare parts and automobile accessories. Other than automobile manufacturers that grant us franchise rights and supply us with original parts, we also depend on third parties for the supply of certain spare parts for our automobile repair shop and automobile accessories. We rely on such third party suppliers to supply us with high-quality and price-competitive spare parts and automobile accessories. If such suppliers fail to provide us with products that satisfy manufacturers’ and our requirements, we may not be able to secure replacement products on favorable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, defective spare parts and automobile accessories from these suppliers may cause personal and/or property damage to our customers resulting in damage claims against us, for which we may not be able to obtain indemnity from such suppliers. We may also incur significant financial costs in connection with such claims and they may divert our management’s attention away from other important matters. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. We may not be successful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition targets or in establishing additional dealerships, which could adversely affect our growth. We intend to expand our operations and markets through acquisitions and organic growth. The identification and completion of acquisitions and the establishment of additional dealerships require significant financial, managerial and other resources and we may not be able to identify, or complete the acquisition of, suitable acquisition targets, or to establish desired dealerships, on favorable terms or at all. We compete with several other dealer groups, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, and we may not be able to compete successfully with such groups in acquiring suitable targets or in establishing desired dealerships. If we do not succeed in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition targets or in establishing additional dealerships, our growth and business prospects will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or manage newly established dealerships, we will be unable to realize desired results from our growth strategies and such acquired and newly established operations will divert resources from our other comparatively profitable operations. Our future growth depends in large part on our ability to acquire and establish additional dealerships, manage expansion, control costs in our operations and consolidate new dealerships into our organization. We have historically grown our business by establishing new dealerships and we do not have a history of acquiring and integrating additional dealerships. We may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategies through acquiring and integrating additional dealerships. In pursuing our growth strategy of acquiring and establishing additional dealerships, we will face various risks that include, but are not limited to: · incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; · failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; · entering new markets with which we are unfamiliar; · incurring undiscovered liabilities at acquired dealerships; · disrupting our ongoing business; 12 Table of Contents · diverting our management resources; · failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; · impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in personnel with respect to acquired management teams; and · incorrectly valuing acquired entities. We may not adequately anticipate all the demands that our growth will impose on our personnel, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. Moreover, our failure to retain qualified management personnel at any acquired dealership may increase the risk associated with integrating the acquired dealership. If we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, we may fail to realize acquisition synergies and our resources will be focused on incorporating new operations into our structure rather than on areas that may be more profitable. We may encounter difficulties in expanding our business lines beyond new vehicle sales and automobile repair and maintenance services, which may materially and adversely affect our growth and business prospects. We presently generate most of our revenues from new vehicle sales and automobile repair and maintenance services. We plan to expand into other business lines, such as the fleet car leasing and used car sales businesses. We intend to make volume purchases of large numbers of vehicles from automobile manufacturers at discounted rates and then lend these vehicles to retail car rental companies that offer short-term rental services to individual customers. After six to twelve months in service, such rental cars will then be offered for sale by us as used vehicles. The execution of our expansion plan will be subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: · we may not be able to secure desired vehicles from manufacturers in desired quantities on favorable terms or at all; · the retail market price of new vehicles may drop significantly before we complete the sale of used vehicles of the same or competing brands and, as a result, the sales of our used vehicles may be subject to increased pricing pressure and we may sustain a loss on such sales; · our existing car leasing operations are very small in scale and we do not have a track record in operating such businesses on a large scale; · we may fail to obtain a steady and desirable mix of used vehicles from our automobile leasing programs; · our experience and expertise gained from our new vehicle sales business may not be relevant or be successfully applied to the car leasing and used car sales businesses; · we will face intense competition from other dealers or dealer groups that are already in or intend to expand into the car leasing or used car sales businesses; · we may not be able to accurately assess and respond to consumer tastes, preferences and demands in the car leasing and used car sales markets; and · we may not be able to generate enough revenues to offset our costs. These and other risks may make our business expansion plan unsuccessful. In addition, implementing this plan may require us to devote significant financial, managerial and other resources to the car rental and leasing and used car sales businesses, which may divert such resources from our existing business lines. If we are not successful in executing our expansion plan, our growth may be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital to fund the growth of our business, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and which, if available, could dilute your interest in our company. Our business and expansion plan will require significant working capital and capital expenditures. We expect that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and certain capital expenditures for the next 12 months, and we may seek financing to fund additional capital expenditures. If 13 Table of Contents there are unforeseen changes in general business conditions or unexpected developments in our business or expansion, we may require additional cash resources. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we incur more debt, we will be liable for increased debt service costs and might have to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially acceptable terms is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · investors’ perception of, and demand for, our securities; · prevailing conditions of the capital markets in which we seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in automobile distribution enterprises in China; · PRC governmental policies relating to foreign exchange; and · economic, political and other conditions in China. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds when needed could limit our ability to expand or develop our operations to respond to market demands or competitive challenges. We face substantial competition in our industry, and if we fail to compete successfully, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. The automobile retail and servicing industry is highly fragmented and competitive in Beijing, where we presently operate a substantial majority of our business, as well as other areas in China where we may expand in the future. We face intense competition in all of our principal business lines. We compete with other dealerships operating in Beijing for vehicle sales and the principal competitive factors include the selection of popular vehicles, price, location of dealerships, suitability of the facility, on-site management and the quality of customer service. For automobile repair and maintenance services, we compete with other franchise or independent dealers and independent service shops and the principal competitive factors include factory-approved replacement parts, price, the familiarity with a manufacturer’s brands and models, customer service and the ability to attract repeat customers. For our finance and insurance business, the principal competitive factors are favorable interest rates, convenience of “one-stop shopping,” product knowledge and flexibility in finance terms. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers, in securing spare parts from suppliers or in sourcing finance or insurance products from financial institutions or insurance companies. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell our products to our customers. Our franchise agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Further, some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and personnel resources, better locations and lower overhead and sales costs than we do. Our main competitors in the local Beijing market include Beijing Automobile Repair Company, Beijing Tengda Automobile Sales & Service Co., Ltd. and Beijing Yuntong Group. We will also face increased competition from other dealer groups as we expand into other regional markets in China. If we fail to compete with existing or future competitors, our market share could decline and our revenues or profitability could be materially and adversely affected. If vehicle manufacturers discontinue advertising campaigns, incentive programs or other promotional activities, our sales volume and/or profit margin on each sale may be materially and adversely affected. Our dealerships depend on manufacturers for advertising, sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs that are intended to promote and support new vehicle sales. Manufacturers may discontinue or from time to time make changes to these promotional and incentive programs. Some key promotional and incentive programs include: · national, regional or local advertising campaigns for new models of vehicles; · customer incentives on new vehicles; · dealer rebates on new vehicles; 14 Table of Contents · special financing or leasing terms; · warranties on new vehicles; and · sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized vehicle dealers. A reduction or discontinuation of manufacturers’ promotional and incentive programs may reduce our new vehicle sales volume, resulting in decreased vehicle sales and related revenues, and may reduce our profit margin on each sale. Changes in PRC governmental economic policies in relation to the automobile industry may adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. The automobile industry in China is subject to various industrial policies of the PRC government. We may be affected significantly in the future by changes in PRC governmental industrial regulations and economic policies relating to or affecting our industry. Our customers consist of individual customers, corporate entities and governmental agencies and the level of their demand for automobiles may vary significantly as a result of such changes. For example, since late 2008, as part of its efforts to stimulate the Chinese economy amid the global financial crisis, the PRC government has adopted a series of policies favorable to the automobile industry, including implementing an automobile industry stimulus plan and certain related incentive programs in the form of tax deduction and governmental subsidies for purchasing new vehicles. Partly due to such policies and programs, new vehicle sales volumes in China reached 18.5 million units in 2011, representing a 2.5% increase over 2010, according to China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, or CAAM. Some of such policies and programs have a fixed term and have been phased out upon the expiration of their terms and there is no assurance that they will be replaced by other similarly favorable policies and programs in the foreseeable future. Any changes, discontinuation or expiration of governmental policies favorable to the automobile industry may discourage consumers from buying new vehicles and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. The level of vehicle supply may also vary significantly as a result of changes in PRC governmental policies relating to or affecting the automobile industry. PRC governmental regulations on automobile imports, production capacity, foreign investment, automobile emission standards and certain other aspects of the industry could affect the supply of new vehicles in the market. For example, foreign investors currently are not permitted to hold a majority equity interest in any automobile manufacturers in China. In addition, one foreign investor may only invest in up to two automobile manufacturers that manufacture the same category of vehicles (such as passenger vehicles or commercial vehicles) in China. If such restrictions are removed, foreign investors may significantly increase their investment and expand their business in China. As a result, the overall supply of automobiles in China may increase significantly. Any changes in governmental policies that may increase the overall supply of automobiles in China could subject us to a higher degree of pricing pressure and as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and profitability may be materially affected. The automobile industry is also affected by PRC governmental regulations on the availability of credit, interest rates and other factors that could affect the demand and supply of automobiles. Any unfavorable changes in such governmental policies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand suffers from a severe or sustained economic downturn or if there is an oversupply in the automobile industry. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences in China. Our revenues will be materially and adversely affected if there is a severe or sustained downturn in overall levels of consumer spending in China. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and governmental incentive programs, as well as the level of discretionary personal income and credit availability. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and 2009. A variety of factors, including the current European sovereign debt crisis and concerns about the viability of the European Union and the Euro, could cause further disruptions to the global economy. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. If not, the overall economy of China may be adversely affected and the consumer demand for automobiles may drop significantly. Financial institutions may tighten credit in such event, which in turn could materially affect our ability to finance our purchase of new vehicles from manufacturers. In addition, consumers’ demand for automobiles is also subject to other factors that are outside of our control. For example, severe or sustained increases in gasoline prices may lead to a reduction in automobile purchases or a shift in buying patterns from luxury/sports utility vehicle models, which typically provide high profit margins to retailers, to smaller, more economical vehicles, which typically have lower margins. 15 Table of Contents Due to the increased demand of consumers, many automobile manufacturers in China are expanding significantly or plan to expand their production capacity. If the overall capacity of automobile industry outgrows the demand of consumers, the oversupply of automobiles may occur and we may face increased competition and experience increased pricing pressure. As a result, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Government regulations and related compliance costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. We are subject to a wide range of national, provincial and local laws and regulations, including licensing requirements. These laws regulate the conduct of our business, including: · automobile retail sales practices; · automobile parts and services; · used car sales and car rentals; · consumer credit; · deceptive trade practices; · consumer protection; · consumer privacy; · advertising; · land use and zoning; and · health and safety and employment practices. To be in compliance with such laws and regulations, we need to train our employees, engage third party advisers, implement effective policies or take other necessary compliance actions, which will increase our cost and distract our personnel resources. If we or our employees at the individual dealerships violate or are alleged to violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to consumer actions, administrative, civil or criminal actions, investigations and adverse publicity. Such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension, cancellation or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. In addition, our noncompliance with such laws and regulations may cause us to fail to renew our licenses when they expire. Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations in China, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, the handling and disposal of wastes and the remediation of contamination. As with automobile dealerships generally, and vehicle maintenance services providers in particular, our business involves the generation, use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances and wastes. We believe that we are in compliance with all material environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our operations and business activities. The failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us or suspension of our operations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not obtained land use rights and building ownership certificates to some of the properties we occupy and we may not be able to use certain of our leased properties that are on collectively owned rural land that is prohibited from being used for commercial purposes. We have not obtained land use rights and building ownership certificates relating to some of the properties we occupy. One of our affiliated entities, Beijing Aotong Automobile Trading Co., Ltd., or Aotong, leased a parcel of land from a third party for a term of twenty years starting from July 1, 2003 and constructed the facilities for our Audi dealership on such land. This parcel of land is part of a larger parcel of land that is covered by a single land use right certificate and does not have a separate land use right certificate. Due to this lack of a land use right certificate and the fact that we hold such land through a lease, we are not permitted to apply for a building ownership certificate for the facilities constructed on the land and our property rights to such facilities may be 16 Table of Contents limited. We also encountered similar issues and have not obtained land use rights and building ownership certificates with respect to the properties of Beijing Hexinshuntong Sales & Services Co., Ltd. In addition, a number of our affiliated entities, including Beijing Tuozhan Industrial & Trading Development Co., Ltd. (FAW-Volkswagen dealership), Beijing Yuantongqiao Toyota Automobile Trading Co, Ltd. (Toyota dealership), Beijing Tuojiacheng Commercial & Trading Co., Ltd. (Chang An-Mazda dealership), Beijing Lentuo Huitong Automobile Sales Service Co., Ltd. (Shanghai-Volkswagen dealership), Beijing Lentuo Tongda Automobile Sales Service Co., Ltd. (FAW-Volkswagen dealership) and Tianjin Ruitai Auto Sales & Services Co., Ltd. (GAC-Honda dealership), have all subleased the respective parcels of land on which they constructed facilities to operate their current businesses. All such land is classified as collectively owned rural land under the PRC law and was subleased from a third party who in turn leased the land from the respective rural economic collectives that own such land. Under PRC law, collectively owned rural land may not be used for commercial purposes unless it is converted into state-owned land and we may be required to move off such collectively owned rural land. Under relevant lease and sublease agreements, the economic collectives who own the land will provide necessary assistance for the conversion of such land into state-owned land. Such land conversion may not be accomplished on terms favorable to us or at all. Under such agreements, if we are required to move off such land, the economic collectives will provide another comparable piece of land for our business and operation and compensate us for our losses in connection with such relocation. If such land is not converted into state-owned land, or such economic collectives and/or the third party fail to perform their obligations under such lease or sublease agreements, or such lease and sublease agreements are deemed to be void, voidable or otherwise unenforceable, or if ownership disputes or claims regarding such land otherwise arise, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot obtain alternative and comparable sites and properties in a timely manner or at reasonable costs. Furthermore, any disputes or claims relating to such land or any efforts in securing alternative sites and properties could divert our resources and management’s attention from our regular business operations. Moreover, we have not been able to obtain building ownership certificates and certifications from the relevant fire and environmental protection departments for the facilities constructed on these lands, which may adversely affect our ability to use the facilities. The seasonality of the automobile industry impacts our operating results. The automobile industry in China is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. Demand for automobiles is generally higher before or during certain major Chinese holidays, such as the Labor Day holidays in May and the National Day holidays in October. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and operating results generally to be higher in these periods than in other months of the year. Therefore, if circumstances arise during these months that impede automobile sales, such as high fuel costs, automobile supply shortage, unfavorable governmental policy changes, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year would be disproportionately adversely affected. In addition, comparisons of sales and operating results between different periods within a single fiscal year, or between the same periods in different fiscal years, may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our performance. Our capital costs and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by a rising interest rate environment. We finance our purchases of new vehicle inventory through loans from banks and other lenders under which we are charged interest at floating rates. We plan to obtain capital for acquisitions and the establishment of dealerships and for other working capital purposes under similar arrangements. As a result, our debt service expenses may rise with increases in interest rates. Rising interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest-rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because some of our customers finance their vehicle purchases with floating rate loans. As a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. Manufacturers may direct us to apply our resources to capital projects and restructurings that we may not otherwise have chosen to do. Manufacturers may direct us to implement costly capital improvements on certain dealerships as a condition for renewing our franchise agreements with them. Manufacturers also typically require that their franchises meet specific standards of appearance. These factors, either alone or in combination, could cause us to divert our financial resources to capital projects from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us, such as acquisitions. 17 Table of Contents We rely on the services of key personnel, including Mr. Hetong Guo, our founder and chairman, and Mr. Jing Yang, our chief executive officer, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain our store management, sales personnel and automobile engineers and technicians. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, including Mr. Hetong Guo and Mr. Jing Yang. Our business and operations depend to a significant degree on their business vision, industry expertise, experience with our business operations and management skills, as well their relationships with automobile manufacturers, key customers and our employees. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for Mr. Guo, Mr. Yang or other management team members. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel may materially impair the efficiency, productivity and profitability of our operations. In addition, we are dependent on the continued service of, and our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain, our store management, sales personnel and automobile engineers and technicians for the performance and continued success of our business. Due to the strong growth of the PRC economy and the PRC automobile industry, the competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract, train, motivate and retain the necessary personnel to grow and develop our business, continue to deliver high quality sales or customer service, or open new dealerships. Our financial condition, management and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain the experienced personnel we need. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares is beneficially owned by Mr. Hetong Guo, our founder and chairman, and, as a result, he has substantial influence over our company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Hetong Guo, our founder and chairman, beneficially owns 50.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, he will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Guo will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Guo, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Mr. Guo may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other shareholders as his interests may differ from those of other shareholders, including those who purchase ADSs in the initial public offering. Our insurance coverage is limited and we may incur substantial costs in the event of a disruption in our business or other unexpected losses or other events, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and generally do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance covering third party liabilities that arise in an enterprise’s ordinary course of business. Business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, but we have determined that the cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance, together with what we perceive to be a limited risk of disruption, make it impractical for us to subscribe for such insurance. We do not maintain insurance coverage for any kinds of business liabilities or disruptions and would have to bear the costs and expenses associated with any such events out of our own resources. We rely on computer equipment and software systems to manage our operations and we do not maintain data backup systems. We are dependent on information management systems to manage, supervise and improve ordering, inventory and logistics management and financial and cash management, minimize the costs of maintaining inventory and improve our overall sales performance. We intend to continue upgrading our existing information technology systems across our distribution network to operate a uniform platform that is complementary to the expansion of our business. If our computer equipment or software systems fail, our businesses and operations may be disrupted. In addition, we do not have any disaster recovery plan and data back-up systems to handle system failures. Any failure in our computer equipment or software systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may also be restricted by the capacity of our computer equipment or software systems to meet the increased needs of larger scale operations. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and publicly traded in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because the auditors of our company are located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, the auditors of our company are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 18 Table of Contents The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Therefore, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements, which may have a material adverse impact on the trading of our ADSs. If we continue to have any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to timely and accurately record, process and report financial data or comply with disclosure controls and procedures, internal control over financial reporting, and other reporting obligations. As a result, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. During the course of the preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified the following material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the PCAOB: insufficient personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise in the preparation of the financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements that led to a lack of formal policies and procedures to ensure that U.S. GAAP accounting practices are appropriately and consistently applied in certain areas including, but not limited to, leasing revenue recognition and business combination accounting. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that will not be prevented or detected. While we have begun taking actions and measures to significantly improve our internal control over financial reporting in order to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements, we cannot assure you if or when we will be able to remedy this material weakness, that our independent registered public accounting firm will agree with our assessment, or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If the material weakness that we have identified during the course of preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 and other periods in the past recur, or if we identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or fail to implement new or improved controls successfully in a timely manner, we may be unable to issue timely and accurate financial reports and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, or otherwise harm our reputation. In addition, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subjects us to potential regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, as a public company we are required to report, among other things, certain control deficiencies. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ADSs. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes. However, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may take additional actions and measures to address any control deficiencies identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm and we may incur additional costs in implementing these actions and measures. If we grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We adopted an equity incentive plan prior to the consummation of our initial public offering that permits the grant of incentive share options, non-statutory share options, restricted share, share appreciation rights, restricted share units, performance units, performance shares, and other share-based awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company. Under the 2010 equity incentive plan, we will be permitted to issue options to purchase up to 4,500,000 ordinary shares, plus an annual increase of 1% of the outstanding ordinary shares on the first day of the fiscal year, or such lesser amount of shares as determined by the board of directors. As a result of potential future grants under the plan, we expect to incur share-based compensation expenses in future periods. The amount of these expenses will be based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We will apply the Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, for the accounting treatment of our equity incentive plan. As a result, we will have to account for compensation costs for all share options, including share options granted to our directors and employees, using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of income in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. Employee share options or other share-based compensation we may grant in the future may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business in China do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. The automobile industry is subject to extensive governmental regulations in China, including with respect to the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies engaged in automobile distribution. We conduct our automobile sales, repair and maintenance and other services and businesses in China by way of a series of contractual arrangements with Lentuo Electromechanical, a company incorporated in China and controlled by Mr. Hetong Guo, our founder and chairman, and its various subsidiaries in China. Lentuo Electromechanical’s eight subsidiaries hold the relevant licenses, permits and franchises for operating our business in China. Our wholly owned subsidiaries, Lentuo Hong Kong and Lentuo Beijing, have entered into agreements with Lentuo Electromechanical, all of its shareholders and our eight affiliated entities. Under such agreements, we are able to exercise effective control over our PRC operating affiliated entities and receive a substantial portion of the economic benefits from our affiliated entities in consideration for the services provided by Lentuo Beijing. We also have an exclusive option to purchase from Lentuo Electromechanical all or part of its equity interest in each of the affiliated entities. In the opinion of Jingtian & Gongcheng, our PRC legal counsel, the ownership structure of Lentuo Electromechanical, its subsidiaries and Lentuo Beijing, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; and the contractual arrangements among Lentuo Hong Kong, Lentuo Beijing, the affiliated entities, Lentuo Electromechanical and its shareholders are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, however, that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. We have been further advised by our PRC legal counsel that if the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in the PRC do not comply with PRC laws and regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking the business licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; · discontinuing or restricting the operations of any related-party transactions among our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; · imposing fines or other requirements with which we may not be able to comply; or · requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with Lentuo Electromechanical, its shareholders and subsidiaries for our operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on the contractual arrangements with Lentuo Electromechanical, its shareholders and its subsidiaries to operate our automobile distribution business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Our Corporate Structure.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our affiliated PRC operating entities as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of our affiliated entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as the equity interest holder to operate and effect changes in such entities. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Lentuo Electromechanical or any of its shareholders or any of the affiliated entities fail to perform his or her or its respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and would be required to rely on legal remedies available under PRC law, including seeking specific performance and claims for damages, which may not be effective. For example, if Lentuo Electromechanical were to refuse to transfer its equity interests in its subsidiaries to us when we exercise the call option pursuant to the contractual arrangements, or if Lentuo Electromechanical were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, or any of the affiliated entities fail to fulfill the contractual payment obligations to us, then we may be required to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their respective contractual obligations. All of such contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our affiliated PRC operating entities, our ability to conduct our business may be materially adversely affected and we may be unable to continue to consolidate the financial results of our affiliated entities into our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Contractual arrangements entered into among Lentuo Beijing, Lentuo Electromechanical and its subsidiaries may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that Lentuo Beijing, Lentuo Electromechanical and its subsidiaries owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income in the future and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Lentuo Beijing, Lentuo Electromechanical and its subsidiaries are not based on arm’s-length prices and adjust any of the Lentuo Electromechanical’s or its subsidiaries’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our affiliated entities, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income in the future may be materially and adversely affected if our affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. The dividends we receive from our PRC operating subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the enterprise income tax law in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under China’s enterprise income tax, or EIT law, and its implementation rules, dividends, interest, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property of a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC payable to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, or Hong Kong, where Lentuo Hong Kong, our PRC operating subsidiaries’ direct holding company, is incorporated, does have a tax treaty with the PRC. That tax treaty provides that, among other things, dividends payable on equity interests of a PRC company to individuals or entities in Hong Kong are entitled to enjoy a reduced withholding tax rate of 5%, provided that such individuals or entities are deemed as the “beneficial owners” to those dividends as defined under that tax treaty. On October 27, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, promulgated the Circular on How to Understand and Recognize the “Beneficial Owner” in Tax Treaties, or Circular 601. Circular 601 clarifies that a beneficial owner shall be a person engaged in actual operation and this person could be an individual, a company or any other entity. Circular 601 expressly excludes a “conduit company,” which is established for the purposes of tax avoidance and dividend transfers and is not engaged in actual operations such as manufacturing, sales and management, from being a beneficial owner. It is still unclear how Circular 601 is being implemented by SAT or its local counterparts in practice and whether Lentuo Hong Kong could be recognized as a “beneficial owner.” If Lentuo Hong Kong is considered as a non-resident enterprise but not qualified as a beneficial owner, Lentuo Hong Kong will not be entitled to a reduced 5% withholding tax and the 10% withholding tax would be imposed on our dividend income received from our PRC operating subsidiaries. As a result, our net income would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Under the EIT law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that Lentuo International Inc. should be classified as a resident enterprise, then its worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the EIT law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if Lentuo International Inc. and Lentuo Hong Kong are classified as PRC resident enterprises, the dividends received from our PRC operating subsidiaries may be exempted from income tax. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities would interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like Lentuo International Inc., having indirect ownership interests in PRC enterprises through intermediary holding vehicles. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money or pay dividends. As a holding company, we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Lentuo Hong Kong and Lentuo Beijing for our cash requirements, including funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If Lentuo Hong Kong or Lentuo Beijing incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Lentuo Beijing only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws 21 Table of Contents and regulations, Lentuo Beijing is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve. This reserve is not distributable as dividends until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50% of its registered capital. As a result, Lentuo Beijing is restricted in its ability to transfer its net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of Lentuo Beijing to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to borrow money outside of the PRC or pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. Also see “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—The dividends we receive from our PRC operating subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the EIT law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets are located in and all of our revenues are sourced from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by China’s continued economic growth as a whole. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in the PRC, which could in turn reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The PRC government also extensively regulates the automobile industry in general and automobile distribution in particular. Changes in these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. See “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Changes in PRC governmental economic policies in relation to the automobile industry may adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations.” Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal decisions have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in the PRC. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Lentuo Beijing and Jiashi Shengtong, are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. Lentuo Beijing, Jiashi Shengtong, Lentuo Electromechanical and its subsidiaries are privately owned companies and are subject to various PRC laws and regulations that are generally applicable to companies in the PRC. These laws and regulations are still evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in the PRC legal system than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. 22 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or employees to personal liabilities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, or may otherwise expose us to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations may apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. SAFE regulations require PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his or her registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liability for the PRC shareholders and the PRC subsidiary under PRC law for foreign exchange registration evasion. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule and on February 15, 2012, the SAFE issued the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas - Listed Company, or the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, which replaced the Share Option Rule. Under the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who will be granted stock options will be subject to the Stock Incentive Plan Rule as our company is an overseas publicly listed company. If we or our PRC employees granted stock options fail to comply with such regulation, we or our employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. We, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiary, may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to finance the activities of Lentuo Beijing, a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. Any additional capital contributions to Lentuo Beijing or Jiashi Shengtong must be approved by the MOFCOM. We cannot assure you that we can obtain the necessary government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to Lentuo Beijing or Jiashi Shengtong. If we fail to timely receive such registrations or approvals, or at all, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be adversely affected, which in turn would adversely and materially affect our business prospects and growth plan. Restrictions on currency exchange under PRC laws may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies and may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under the relevant foreign exchange restrictions in China, conversion of the Renminbi is permitted, without the need for SAFE approval, for “current account” transactions, which includes dividends, trade, and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Conversion of the Renminbi for “capital account” transactions, which include foreign direct investment and loans, is still subject to significant limitations and requires approvals from and registration with SAFE and other PRC regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that SAFE or other PRC governmental authorities will not further limit, or eliminate, our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange in China may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies to fund expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. If the foreign exchange restrictions in China prevent us from obtaining U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies as required, we may not be able to pay dividends in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Furthermore, foreign exchange transactions under the capital 23 Table of Contents account transactions could affect Lentuo Beijing’s ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from our initial public offering are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars following our initial public offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we pay after our initial public offering, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. We face risks related to epidemics, which may severely disrupt our business and operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by epidemics. For example, from December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, the PRC government closed many businesses in China to prevent transmission of SARS. Since 2003, there have been reports of occurrences of avian influenza in various parts of China, including a number of confirmed human cases and deaths. In 2009, there was an outbreak of H1N1 influenza virus (also known as “swine flu”) in Mexico and that virus quickly spread to China and other countries, resulting in a world wide epidemic. Any actual or threatened outbreak of epidemics in China may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business operations and severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which would in turn reduce the demand for our automobiles and related products and services. The state of the PRC’s political relationships with other nations may affect the performance of our operations. We sell automobiles, spare parts, automobile accessories and other automobile-related products supplied by a number of automakers and suppliers. A significant number of the automakers and suppliers are foreign entities with headquarters in Japan or members of the European Union, or are joint ventures incorporated in the PRC by such foreign entities. China’s political relationships with, or the general public’s perception towards, other nations, particularly those connected or associated with the automakers or other suppliers, may affect both supply and demand for the relevant automaker or supplier’s products in China. There can be no assurance that PRC consumers will not alter their brand preferences based on the state of political relations between China and the automaker or supplier’s actual or perceived home country. Any relevant political dispute and adverse response to it by PRC automobile consumers may cause a decline in our revenue and profits and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth. Risks Related to our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of PRC companies have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The market price of these PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. 24 Table of Contents In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: · variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, including as a result of seasonality; · announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · announcements of new services and expansion by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · additions or departures of key personnel; · release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; · potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and · fluctuations in market prices for our services. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot assure you that these factors will not occur in the future. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market after the completion of our initial public offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. The ADSs sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless held by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions which could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the EIT law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs, subject to reduction by an applicable tax treaty, if such income is sourced from the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if Lentuo International Inc. is classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: 25 Table of Contents (1) the average quarterly percentage value of our gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of our total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. “Passive income” includes dividends, interest, royalties, certain net gain from the sale of commodities, rents and royalties (other than rents and royalties derived in the active conduct of a trade or business), annuities and gain from the sale of assets that produce passive income. We do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2011 although this conclusion depends in part on complex factual determinations, some of which may be subject to interpretation. There can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or any future taxable year. PFIC status is tested after the close of each year and will depend on our assets and income in such year. We will make a determination for each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of such taxable year) and intend to disclose such determination in our annual reports on Form 20-F that are filed with the SEC. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares and you are a U.S. Holder (as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”), you may become subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and special U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements unless you make a timely “mark-to-market” election to mitigate the applicable tax consequences. For more information on the U.S. federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2011 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: · to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and the PRC, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities”. 26 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 21 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will as soon as practicable after receipt of notice from us notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. 27 Table of Contents The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American depositary receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and New York Stock Exchange, impose various requirements on the corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we need to adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. It may also be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers due to increased risks of liability to our directors under these rules and regulations. We cannot predict or estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Shareholders of a public company may bring securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 