D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business If we are not able to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without significantly decreasing course fees, our business and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses and the amount of course fees that our students are willing to pay. Therefore, our ability to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without a significant decrease in course fees is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to continue to develop new programs and enhance or adapt existing programs to respond to changes in market trends, student demands and government policies, expand our geographic reach, manage our growth while maintaining consistent and high teaching quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, develop additional high-quality educational content and respond effectively to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students without significantly decreasing course fees to enroll in our courses, our revenues may decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to recruit, train and retain qualified and dedicated teachers, who are critical to the success of our business and the effective delivery of our tutoring services to students. Our teachers are critical to the quality of our services and our reputation. We seek to hire qualified and dedicated teachers who deliver effective and inspirational instruction. There is a limited pool of teachers with these attributes, and we must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain such teachers. We must also provide continued training to our teachers to ensure that they stay abreast of changes in student demands, academic standards and other key trends necessary to teach effectively. Although we have not experienced major difficulties in recruiting, training or retaining qualified teachers in the past, we may not be able to recruit, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified teachers in the future to keep pace with our growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality in the different markets we serve. A shortage of qualified teachers or a decrease in the quality of our teachers' services, whether actual or perceived, or a significant increase in compensation for us to retain qualified teachers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to improve the content of our existing courses or to develop new courses or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. We constantly update and improve the content of our existing courses and develop new courses or services to meet changing market demands. Revisions to our existing courses and our newly developed courses or services may not be well received by existing or prospective students or their parents. If we cannot respond effectively to changes in market demands, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop new courses or services that are well received, we may not be able to introduce them in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we do not respond adequately to changes in market demands, our ability to attract and retain students may be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Offering new courses or services or modifying existing courses may require us to invest in content development, increase marketing efforts and re-allocate resources away from other uses. We may have limited experience with the content of new courses or services and may need to adjust our systems and strategies to incorporate new courses or services into our existing offerings. If we are unable to continuously improve the content of our existing courses, or offer new courses or services in a timely or cost-effective manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our "Xueersi" brand has contributed significantly to the success of our business, and that maintaining and enhancing the value of this brand is critical to maintaining and enhancing our competitive advantage. If we are unable to successfully promote and market our brand and services, our ability to attract new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We mainly rely on word-of-mouth referrals to attract prospective students. We also use integrated marketing tools and tactics such as the Internet, wechat, social media, public lectures, outdoor advertising campaigns, co-brand promotions, and distribution of marketing materials to promote our brand and service offerings. In order to maintain and increase our brand recognition and promote our new service offerings, we have increased our marketing personnel and expenses over the last several years. We have also sought to strengthen recognition for our other brands, such as our "Haoweilai" brand, which is the umbrella brand for all our brands, our "Zhikang" brand, through which we offer personalized premium services, our "Mobby" brand, through which we offer young learners tutoring services for students aged two through eight, our "Lejiale" brand, through which we offer English subject tutoring services and our "Dongxuetang" brand, through which we offer our Chinese subject tutoring services. A number of factors could prevent 5 Table of Contents us from successfully promoting our brand, including student dissatisfaction with our services and the failure of our marketing tools and strategies to attract prospective students. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our "Xueersi" brand, successfully develop additional brands, or utilize marketing tools in a cost-effective manner, our revenues and profitability may suffer. Moreover, we offer a variety of courses to primary, middle and high school students in some of the large cities in China. As we continue to grow in size, expand our course offerings and extend our geographic reach, it may be more difficult to maintain quality and consistent standards of our services and to protect and promote our brand name. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our services, or if we incur excessive sales and marketing expenses, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of future performance. Our net revenues increased from $225.9 million in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013 to $313.9 million in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, and further to $434.0 million in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies at our stage of development. In addition, the after-school tutoring service market in China is still at the development stage, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Furthermore, our results of operations may vary from period to period in response to a variety of other factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and regulations or government actions pertaining to the private education service sector in China, changes in spending on private education, our ability to accurately predict cost of revenues and operating expenses, and non-recurring charges incurred under unexpected circumstances or in connection with acquisitions, equity investments or other extraordinary transactions. Due to the above factors, our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on our past results or our historical growth rates as indications of our future performance. If our students' level of performance deteriorates or satisfaction with our services declines, they may decide to withdraw from our courses and request refunds and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on our ability to deliver a satisfactory learning experience and improved academic results. Our tutoring services may fail to improve a student's academic performance and a student may perform below expectations even after completing our courses. Additionally, student and parent satisfaction with our services may decline. A student's learning experience may also suffer if his or her relationship with our teachers does not meet expectations. We generally offer refunds for the remaining classes in a course to students who withdraw from the course. If a significant number of students fail to improve their academic performance after attending our courses or if their learning experiences with us are unsatisfactory, they may decide to withdraw from our courses and request refunds, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be adversely affected. We face significant competition, and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose our market share or fail to gain additional market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. The private education market in China is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We face competition in each type of services we offer 6 Table of Contents and in each geographic market where we operate. Our competitors at the national level include New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. and Xueda Education Group. Our student enrollments may decrease due to intense competition. Some of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their programs, services and products and respond more quickly than we can to changes in student needs, testing materials, admission standards, market trends or new technologies. In addition, some smaller local companies may be able to respond more quickly to changes in student preferences in some of our targeted markets. Moreover, the increasing use of the Internet and advances in Internet, mobile Internet and computer-related technologies, such as web video conferencing and online testing simulators, are eliminating geographic and physical facility-related entry barriers to providing private education services. As a result, smaller local companies or Internet-content providers may be able to use the Internet or mobile Internet to offer their programs, services and products quickly and cost-effectively to a large number of students with less capital expenditure than previously required. Consequently, we may be required to reduce course fees or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. We will also face increased competition as we expand our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position or otherwise effectively respond to competition, we may lose our market share or fail to gain additional market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our service network may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities. Our business has experienced growth in recent years. The number of our learning centers increased from 255 as of February 28, 2013 to 289 as of February 28, 2015. We plan to continue to expand our operations in different geographic markets in China. The establishment of new learning centers poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. The expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management and staff as well as our financial, operational, technological and other resources. In addition, we typically incur pre-opening costs associated with our new learning centers, and may incur losses during their initial ramp-up stage because we incur rent, salary and other operating expenses for new learning centers regardless of any revenues we may generate. If the ramp-up of our new learning centers is slower than expected, whether due to our inability to attract sufficient student enrollments or charge hourly rates for our courses that are high enough for us to recover our costs, our overall financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. Our planned expansion will also place significant pressure on us to maintain teaching quality and consistent standards, controls and policies to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decrease, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our programs. To manage and support our expansion, we must improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified teachers and management personnel as well as other administrative and marketing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, maintain or increase our gross and operating profit margins, recruit and retain qualified teachers and management personnel, successfully integrate new learning centers into our operations and otherwise effectively manage our growth. If we are not successful in effectively and efficiently managing our expansion, we may not be able to capitalize on new business opportunities, which may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategies include further penetrating our existing markets, extending our geographic reach into new regions, and further developing our online course offerings and online education platform. We may not succeed in executing our growth strategies due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: • we may fail to identify, and effectively market our services in, new markets with sufficient growth potential into which to expand our network or promote new courses in existing markets; • it may be difficult to increase the number of learning centers in more developed cities; • although we have replicated our growth model in Beijing and Shanghai to certain other cities, we may not be able to continue to do so to additional geographic markets, and we may experience decline in our Beijing or Shanghai businesses that would offset the growth we are experiencing in other geographic markets; • our analysis for selecting suitable new locations may not be accurate and the demand for our services at the newly selected locations may not materialize or increase as rapidly as we expect; • we may fail to obtain the requisite licenses and permits necessary to open learning centers at our desired locations from local authorities or face risks in opening without the requisite licenses and permits; • we may not be able to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively; • we may not be able to continue to enhance our online offerings or expand them to new markets, generate profits from online offerings, or adapt online offerings to changing student needs and technological advances such that we will continue to face significant student acquisition costs in the markets we enter; and • we may not be profitable in our new tutoring business and may encounter obstacles in expanding our Mobby tutoring business to other markets. If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected as a result. We derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of cities. Any event negatively affecting the private education market in these cities, or any increase in the level of competition for the types of services we offer in these cities, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and results of operations. Our services in Beijing and Shanghai have contributed a significant but declining portion of our revenues. We derived approximately 77.4%, 65.9% and 55.9% of our total net revenues for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, from these two cities. Revenues from our services in other cities have grown quickly in recent years and began to contribute more significantly to our total revenues. For instance, we derived approximately 10.9% of our total net revenues from Guangzhou and 7.4% of our total net revenues from Shenzhen for the year ended February 28, 2015. We believe that our reliance on revenues from Beijing and Shanghai will continue to decrease as revenues from other cities continue to grow. However, we still expect that we will derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of cities for the foreseeable future. If any of these cities experiences an event negatively affecting its private education market, such as a serious economic downturn, natural disaster or outbreak of contagious disease, adopts regulations relating to private education that place additional restrictions or burdens on us, or experiences an increase in the level of 8 Table of Contents competition for the types of services we offer, our overall business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively, our business and prospects could be harmed. The expansion of our personalized premium services business has entailed and may continue to entail significant investment of human capital, financial resources and management time and attention as such one-on-one tutoring services impose a different set of requirements on our teachers and many other aspects of our operations than small classes, which currently constitute the main format of our service offerings. If we fail to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively, it could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Failure to adequately and promptly respond to changes in PRC laws and regulations on school curriculum, examination systems and admission standards in China could render our courses and services less attractive to students. Under the PRC education system, school admissions rely heavily on examination results. College and high school entrance examinations in most cases are mandatory for high school and middle school graduates to gain admission to colleges and high schools, respectively. Therefore, a student's performance in these examinations is critical to his or her education and future employment prospects. Although examinations are not required for entering middle schools, many key middle schools administer their own assessment processes to disqualify prospective students. It is therefore common for students to take after-school tutoring classes to improve performance, and the success of our business to a large extent depends on the continued use of assessment process by high schools and colleges in their admissions. However, this heavy emphasis on examination scores may decline or fall out of favor with educational institutions or education authorities in China. There are continuous changes in high school and college entrance exams and college admission standards in China, including the focus of the subjects and questions tested, the format of the tests, and the manner in which the tests are administered. These changes require us to continually update and enhance our curriculum, course materials and teaching methods. Any inability to track and respond to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner would make our services and products less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students. For example, the Ministry of Education, or MoE, promulgated new curriculum standards for primary and secondary schools in China covering 19 subjects, including mathematics, Chinese and English, in December 2011. These new curriculum standards took effect in the fall semester of 2012. In October 2013, the Beijing Municipal Commission of Education announced plans to change policies relating to college entrance examinations, under which changes to the format and content of English exam are to be introduced in the coming years. We have completed the process of adapting our tutoring programs and materials to these new curriculum requirements. However, any failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to such changes will adversely impact the marketability of our services and products. Regulations and policies which de-emphasize scholastic competition achievements in college and high school admissions have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our enrollments. Our business in Beijing has been affected by the change in policy on the use of mathematical Olympiad competition results for admission to key middle schools. Following the MoE's amendment of its "extra credit policy" in November 2010 to limit the number of extra scores Olympiad competition winners may receive for their college entrance examination and in compliance with the Implementation Opinions on Standardizing Educational Changes and Adjusting Arbitrary Educational Changes in 2013, which relate to the admissions processes of high schools, certain local educational authorities promulgated policies limiting the role of Olympiad competitions in the admission process of high 9 Table of Contents schools and middle schools. In February 2013, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission issued a Notice on Mitigating Schoolwork-Related Stress on Students in Primary and Secondary Schools, which, among other things, prohibit public schools from cooperating with or authorizing private training organizations to offer after-school tutoring services for the purpose of enrolling students in such public schools. This policy has generally resulted in a decrease in the demand for mathematical Olympiad competition courses, which in turn has also affected the enrollments in our mathematics classes as well as our personalized premium services business. In addition, the MoE issued the Implementation Opinions on Further Improving the Exam-exemption and Nearest Schooling Enrollment Work in Secondary Schools in January 2014 to clarify that local educational administrative departments at all levels, public schools and private schools are not allowed to use examinations to select their students. Public schools may not use various competitions or examinations as the selection method for enrollment. The general office of the MoE issued the Notice on Further Improving the Compulsory School Exam-exemption and Nearest Schooling Enrollment Work in Main Cities to the provincial and municipal educational administrative departments in Beijing, Tianjin, Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Shandong, Hubei, Guangdong, Chongqing, Sichuan, Shanxi, Dalian, Qingdao, Ningbo, Xiamen and Shenzhen in January 2014 to further request that all the primary schools and secondary schools in main cities implement this notice gradually from now to 2017 and put an end to the entrance examinations and the link between entrance examinations and enrollment. These policies were published recently and have not resulted in a decrease in the demand for any of our services so far. However, we cannot ensure you that they will not adversely affect the performance of our after-school tutoring business and personalized premium services that target students in primary schools. Also, education authorities in Yunnan Province stopped administering provincial-level high school entrance examinations in 2010. High school admissions in Yunnan Province have since then been based on a combination of middle school examination results that have replaced raw scores with letter grades and comprehensive evaluations of students' aptitude and performance by their middle schools. Yunnan Province also began to prohibit subject competitions in primary and secondary schools in November 2009. Although we do not offer after-school tutoring services in Yunnan Province, nor do we expect to do so in the near future, it is possible that the local governments in the areas where we have operations may adopt similar measures. Furthermore, approximately 109 universities in China have been allowed to recruit generally no more than 5% of their students through independently administered examinations and admission procedures in recent years. In some provinces, such as Hubei, this proportion was reported to be increased to 8% in 2012. Candidates for admission to those universities are still required to take college entrance examinations and meet certain threshold requirements, but their college entrance exam scores are no longer the sole determining factor in the admission processes of those universities. If we fail to adjust our services to respond to any such material changes, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, admission and assessment processes in China constantly undergo changes and development in terms of subject and skill focus, question type, examination format and the manner in which processes are used. We are therefore required to continually update and improve our curriculum, course materials and our teaching methods. A failure to track and respond to any such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner could make our courses and services less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students and in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accidents or injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises may adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and cause us to incur substantial costs. Although we carry certain liability insurance for our students and their parents, in the event of accidents or injuries or other harm to students or other people on our premises, including those caused by or otherwise arising from the actions of our employees or contractors on our premises, our facilities 10 Table of Contents may be perceived to be unsafe, which may discourage prospective students from attending our classes. We could also face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision to our employees or contractors and therefore should be held jointly liable for harm caused by them or are otherwise liable for injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises. For instance, in 2012, three students were injured while attending a physics laboratory class in Beijing. We have paid for the medical and related expenses and/or negotiated settlements with the families of these three students, and while we have liability insurance policies, such policies only covered a small portion of the compensation. Although we have since enhanced preventive measures to avoid similar incidents, we cannot assure you that there will be no similar incidents in the future. A material liability claim against us or any of our teachers or independent contractors could adversely affect our reputation, enrollment and revenues. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could create unfavorable publicity, cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert the time and attention of our management. Our new courses and services may compete with our existing offerings. We are constantly developing new courses and services to meet changes in student demands, school curriculum, testing materials, admission standards, market trends and technologies. While some of the courses and services that we develop will expand our current offerings and increase student enrollment, others may compete with or render obsolete our existing offerings without increasing our total student enrollment. For example, our online courses might attract students away from our classroom-based courses. If we are unable to increase our total student enrollment and profitability as we expand our course and service offerings, our business and growth may be adversely affected. If we are not able to continually enhance our online courses and services and adapt to rapid changes in technological demands and student needs, we may lose market share and our business could be adversely affected. Widespread use of the Internet for educational purposes is a relatively recent occurrence, and the market for Internet-based courses and services is characterized by rapid technological changes and innovations, as well as unpredictable product life cycles and user preferences. We have limited experience with online courses and services. We must be able to adapt quickly to changing student needs and preferences, technological advances and evolving Internet practices in order to compete successfully in online education. Ongoing enhancement of our online offerings and technologies may entail significant expenses and technological risks, and we may not be able to use new technologies effectively and may fail to adapt to changes in the online education market on a timely and cost-effective basis. We began offering online courses through our www.xueersi.com in 2010 and revenues generated from our online course offerings through www.xueersi.com accounted for 3.1%, 3.0% and 3.6% of our total net revenues in the fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. We expect that revenues from our online course offerings will increase. However, if improvements to our online offerings and technologies are delayed, result in systems interruptions or are not aligned with market expectations or preferences, we may lose market share and our growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, which includes Bangxin Zhang, our chairman and chief executive officer, Yachao Liu, our senior vice president, Yunfeng Bai, our senior vice president and Rong Luo, our chief financial officer. If any member of our senior management team leaves us and we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel in the future or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced professionals on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be 11 Table of Contents adversely affected. Competition for experienced management personnel in the education industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or to attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. Our success also depends on our having highly trained financial, technical, human resource, sales and marketing staff, management personnel and qualified and dedicated teachers for local markets. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel as our business grows. A shortage in the supply of personnel with requisite skills or our failure to recruit them could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing courses and services, to launch new course and service offerings and to expand our operations, and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to control rental costs, obtain leases at desired locations at reasonable prices or protect our leasehold interests could materially and adversely affect our business. Our office space and service and learning centers are presently mainly located on leased premises. We purchased 7,582 square meters of building space in Beijing in July 2011, which we renovated as offices in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013. With respect to our leased premises, at the end of each lease term, which generally ranges from one to 15 years, we must negotiate an extension of the lease and if we are not able to negotiate an extension on terms acceptable to us, we will be forced to move to a different location, or the rent may increase significantly. This could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our profitability. All of our leases are subject to renewal at market prices, which could result in a substantial rent increase at each time of renewal. We compete with many other businesses for sites in certain prime locations and some landlords may have entered into long-term leases with our competitors for these locations. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases at desirable locations or renew our existing leases on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, a few of our lessors have not been able to provide us with copies of title certificates or other evidencing documents to prove that they have authorization to lease the properties to us. We also have not registered most of our lease agreements with the relevant PRC governmental authorities as required by relevant PRC law. As of the date of this annual report, we are not aware of any actions, claims or investigations threatened against us or our lessors with respect to the defects in our leasehold interests. We were aware of the defects when we entered into those leases. In many cases, we entered into leases upon promises from the lessors that relevant certificates and authorizations would be delivered at a later time, which did not eventually materialize. Our business and legal teams followed an internal guideline to identify and assess risks in connection with leasing the properties, and a final business decision was made after our analysis of the likely impact of the defects on the leasehold interests and the value of the properties to our expansion plan. However, there is no assurance that our decision would always lead to the favorable outcome we expected to achieve. If any of our leases are terminated as a result of challenges by third parties or government authorities for lack of title certificates or proof of authorization to lease, we do not expect to be subject to any fines or penalties but we may be forced to relocate the affected learning centers and incur additional expenses relating to such relocation. If we fail to find suitable replacement sites in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Capacity constraints of our teaching facilities could cause us to lose students to our competitors. The teaching facilities of our physical network are limited in size and number of classrooms. We may not be able to admit all students who would like to enroll in our courses due to the capacity constraints of our teaching facilities. This would deprive us of the opportunity to serve them and to potentially develop a long-term relationship with them for continued services. If we fail to expand our physical capacity as quickly as the demand for our classroom-based services grows, we could lose potential students to our competitors, and our results of operations and business prospects could suffer. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and business may suffer. We consider our copyrights, trademarks, trade names, Internet domain names, patents and other intellectual property rights invaluable to our ability to continue to develop and enhance our brand recognition. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and brands. Our "Xueersi" brand and logo is a registered trademark in China. Our proprietary curricula and course materials are protected by copyrights. However, preventing infringement on or misuse of intellectual property rights could be difficult, costly and time-consuming, particularly in China. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized uses. Furthermore, application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. There have been several incidents in the past where third parties used our brand "Xueersi" without our authorization, and on occasion we have needed to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we are still in the process of applying for the registration in China of the trademarks for our "Haoweilai" brand. We cannot assure you that the relevant governmental authorities will grant us the approval to register such trademarks. As a result, we may be unable to prevent third parties from utilizing this brand name, which may have an adverse impact on our brand image. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in the future, we may lose these rights, our brand name may be harmed, and our business may suffer materially. Furthermore, our management's attention may be diverted by violations of our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to enter into costly litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of the intellectual property of third parties. We cannot assure you that our courses and marketing materials, online courses, products, and platform or other intellectual property developed or used by us do not or will not infringe upon valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in those disputes. For instance, on April 28, 2015, three major education publishers, People's Education Press, Ltd., Beijing Normal University Press Ltd. and Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press LLC, made a joint statement on protecting copyrights and pursuing legal liabilities against those entities which use, edit, publish, sell or otherwise disseminate the contents in the textbooks published by the three press without authorization. We have adopted policies and procedures to prohibit our employees and contractors from infringing upon third-party copyright or intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure that our teachers or other personnel will not, against our policies, use third-party copyrighted materials or intellectual property without proper authorization in our classes, on our websites, at any of our locations or via any medium through which we provide our programs. Our users may also post unauthorized third-party content on our websites. We may incur liability for unauthorized duplication or distribution of materials posted on our websites or used in our classes. We have been involved in claims against us alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and we may be subject to such claims in the future. Any such intellectual property infringement claim could result in costly litigation and divert our management attention and resources. We may fail to successfully make necessary or desirable acquisition or investment, and we may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect from recent and future acquisitions or investments. We have made and intend to continue to make acquisitions or equity investments in additional businesses that complement our existing business. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses. We may not have any control over the businesses or operations of our minority equity investments, the value of which may decline over time. As a result, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, if the businesses we acquire or invest in do not subsequently generate 13 Table of Contents the anticipated financial performance or if any goodwill impairment test triggering event occurs, we may need to revalue or write down the value of goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with such acquisitions or investments, which would harm our results of operations. For example, we discontinued our operation of the two schools in Jianli and Qianjiang during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2011. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $0.1 million relating to a purchase of a business in Tianjin in March 2008. Moreover, we made a series of investments in recent years, including a minority equity investment of approximately $23.5 million in BabyTree Inc. in January 2014, a minority equity investment of approximately $18.0 million in Minerva Project, Inc., or Minerva, in October 2014, and a minority equity investment of $15.0 million in Guokr Inc., or Guokr, in October 2014. These and other investments may need to be revalued or written down in the future. In addition, we may be unable to identify appropriate acquisition or strategic investment targets when it is necessary or desirable to make such acquisition or investment to remain competitive or to expand our business. Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition or investment target, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition or investment successfully, finance the proposed transaction or integrate the relevant businesses into our existing business and operations. Furthermore, as we often do not have control over the companies in which we only have minority stake, we cannot ensure that these companies always will comply with applicable laws and regulations in their business operations. Material non-compliance by our investees may cause substantial harms to our reputations and the value of our investment. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in student enrollments. The fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, comparisons of our operating results between different periods within a single financial year, or between same periods in different financial years, may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as good indicators of our performance. If we cannot obtain sufficient cash when we need it, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our convertible notes. In May 2014, we issued $200 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2019. Additionally, we granted to the initial purchasers of the notes a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $30 million in principal amount of notes. Upon the exercise of such option by certain initial purchasers, we issued an aggregate of $230 in aggregate principal amount of the notes. The notes bear interest at a rate of 2.50% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2014. The notes will mature on May 15, 2019. Holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes on May 15, 2017 or upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The notes are convertible into ADSs, at the option of the holders, in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount at any time prior to the close of business on the second trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to pay the interest or repurchase price or fulfill other obligations under the notes. We are a holding company with no material operations of our own. As a result, we rely upon dividends and other cash distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries to meet our payment obligations under the notes and our other obligations. Our subsidiaries are distinct legal entities and do not have any obligation, legal or otherwise, to provide us with dividends or other distributions. We may face tax or other adverse consequences, or legal limitations, on our ability to obtain funds from these entities. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by internet companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our convertible notes. If we fail to pay interest on the notes, we will be in default under the indenture governing the notes, which in turn may constitute a default under existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. We have limited liability insurance coverage and do not carry business disruption insurance. We have limited liability insurance coverage for our students and their parents in all of our learning centers. A successful liability claim against us due to injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and reputation. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause adverse publicity to us, require substantial cost to defend and divert the time and attention of our management. For more information, see "Item 3.D.—Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Accidents or injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises may adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and cause us to incur substantial costs." In addition, we do not have any business disruption insurance. Any business disruption event could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. System disruptions to our websites or computer systems or a leak of student data could damage our reputation and limit our ability to retain students and increase student enrollment. The performance and reliability of our websites and computer systems is critical to our reputation and ability to retain students and increase student enrollment. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in online traffic, could disrupt or slow access to our websites. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our online infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet the increasing demands of our students and their parents. In addition, our computer systems store and process important information including, without limitation, class schedules, registration information and student data and could be vulnerable to interruptions or malfunctions due to events beyond our control, such as natural disasters and technology failures. For instance, we have in the past experienced interruptions to our operations due to temporary computer system failures. Although we have a daily backup system that runs on different servers for our operating data, we may still lose important student data or suffer disruption to our operations if there is a failure of the database system or the backup system. In addition, computer hackers, foreign governments or cyber terrorists may attempt to penetrate our network security and our website. Unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or customer data may be obtained through break-ins, sabotage, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, employee theft or misuse, breach of the security of the networks of our third party providers, or other misconduct. Because the techniques used by computer programmers who may attempt to penetrate and sabotage our network security or our website change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. We would suffer economic and reputational damages if a technical failure of our systems or a security breach compromises student data, including identification or contact information, although there has not been any compromise in the past. Any disruption to our computer systems could 15 Table of Contents therefore have a material adverse effect on our on-site operations and ability to retain students and increase student enrollments. We face risks related to natural and other disasters, including outbreaks of health epidemics, and other extraordinary events, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural and other disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communication failures and similar events. Additionally, our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H7N9 bird flu, H1N1 swine influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, Ebola or another health epidemic. While we have not suffered any material loss or experienced any significant increase in costs as a result of any natural and other disaster or other extraordinary event, our student attendance and our business could be materially and adversely affected by any such occurrence in any of the cities in which we have major operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company's internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of February 28, 2015, and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of February 28, 2015. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. In addition, we need to continue to evaluate the consolidation of our VIEs and VIEs' subsidiaries and schools given the change in the ownership or voting power of the Company by the nominee shareholders of the VIEs. As a result, although we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We may be the subject of anti-competitive, harassing, or other detrimental conduct by third parties including anonymous allegations, negative blog postings, and the public dissemination of malicious assessments of our business that could cause us to incur significant time and costs to address these allegations, harm our reputation and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We may be the target of anti-competitive, harassing, or other detrimental conduct by third parties. Such conduct includes allegations, anonymous or otherwise, sent to our auditors and/or other third 16 Table of Contents parties regarding our operations, accounting, revenues, business relationships, business prospects and business ethics. Additionally, allegations, directly or indirectly against us, may be posted in internet chat-rooms or on blogs or any websites by anyone, whether or not related to us, on an anonymous basis. We may be subject to government or regulatory investigation as a result of such third-party conduct and may be required to expend significant time and incur substantial costs to address such third-party conduct, and there is no assurance that we will be able to conclusively refute each of the allegations within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Our reputation may also be negatively affected as a result of the public dissemination of anonymous allegations or malicious statements about our business, which in turn may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have granted and will continue to grant restricted shares, share options and other share-based awards in the future, which may materially reduce our net income. We adopted a share incentive plan in June 2010 that permits granting of options to purchase our Class A common shares, restricted shares, restricted share units, share appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights and other instruments as deemed appropriate by the administrator under the plan. In August 2013, we amended and restated our 2010 Share Incentive Plan. Pursuant to the amended and restated 2010 Share Incentive Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Class A common shares that may be issued pursuant to all awards under our share incentive plan is equal to five percent (5%) of the total issued and outstanding shares as of the date of the amended and restated 2010 Share Incentive Plan. However, the shares reserved may be increased automatically if and whenever the unissued share reserve accounts for less than one percent (1%) of the total then issued and outstanding shares, so that after the increase, the shares unissued and reserved under this plan immediately after each such increase shall equal five percent (5%) of the then issued and outstanding shares. As of May 8, 2015, 13,877,146 non-vested restricted Class A common shares and 450,000 share options to purchase 450,000 Class A common shares under our share incentive plan previously granted to our employees, directors and consultants are outstanding. As a result of these grants and potential future grants under the plan, we have incurred and will continue to incur share-based compensation expenses. We had share-based compensation expenses of $8.3 million, $8.3 million and $18.4 million for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. As of February 28, 2015, the unrecognized compensation expenses related to the non-vested restricted shares amounted to $123.9 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.3 years. Expenses associated with share-based compensation awards granted under our share incentive plan may materially reduce our future net income. However, if we limit the size of grants under our share incentive plan to minimize share-based compensation expenses, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in China are not in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entity that invests in the education business in China to be an educational institution with relevant experience in providing education services outside China. None of our offshore holding companies is an educational institution or provides education services. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we have entered into a series of contractual arrangements among Beijing Century TAL Education Technology Co., Ltd., or TAL Beijing, on the one hand, and Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders, subsidiaries and schools, on the other hand. We rely on the series of contractual arrangements among TAL Beijing, Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders, subsidiaries and schools to conduct most of our services in China. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on our Consolidated Affiliated Entities in 17 Table of Contents China to operate our education business until we qualify for direct ownership of educational businesses in China. Pursuant to our contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, we, through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, exclusively provide comprehensive intellectual property licensing, technical and business support services to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities in exchange for payments from them. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and each of their respective shareholders, which provide us with the ability to effectively control Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective existing and future subsidiaries and schools, as applicable. It is uncertain whether any new PRC laws, rules or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. In particular, in January 2015, the Ministry of Commerce, or MoC, published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law for public review and comments. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors, and be subject to restrictions on foreign investments. However, the draft law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with the "variable interest entity" structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by PRC parties. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. See "Regulation—The Draft PRC Foreign Investment Law" and "—Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations." If the corporate structure and contractual arrangements through which we conduct our business in China are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or such arrangements are determined as illegal and invalid by PRC courts, arbitration tribunals or regulatory authorities, or if we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, we would be subject to potential actions by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities with broad discretion, which actions could include: • revoke our business and operating licenses; • require us to discontinue or restrict our operations; • limit our business expansion in China by way of entering into contractual arrangements; • restrict our right to collect revenues or impose fines; • block our websites; • require us to restructure our operations in such a way as to compel us to establish a new enterprise, re-apply for the necessary licenses or relocate our businesses, staff and assets; • impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply; or • take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these actions results in our inability to direct the activities of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities that most significantly impact their economic performance, and/or our failure to receive the economic benefits from our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, we may not be able to consolidate these entities in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with 18 Table of Contents U.S. GAAP. However, we do not believe that such actions would result in the liquidation or dissolution of our company, our wholly owned subsidiaries in China or our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. We rely on contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for our PRC operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to operate our education business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see "Item 4.C.—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities." These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our Consolidated Affiliated Entities as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of the Consolidated Affiliated Entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of these entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities and their respective shareholders of their obligations under the contracts to exercise control over and receive economic benefits from our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. We have entered into equity pledge agreements with Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network and Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders to guarantee the performance of the obligations of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities under the exclusive business cooperation agreements they have entered into with us. In the registration forms submitted to the local branch of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, for the pledges over the equity interests under the equity pledge agreements, the amount of registered equity interests pledged to TAL Beijing, our wholly owned subsidiary, was RMB10 million, RMB3 million and RMB1 million for Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network and Beijing Dongfangrenli, respectively, which represents 100% of their respective registered capital. The equity pledge agreements with the shareholders of the VIEs provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute continuing security for any and all of the indebtedness, obligations and liabilities under all of the principal service agreements and the scope of pledge shall not be limited by the amount of the registered capital of the VIEs. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the equity pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes last priority among creditors. In addition, we have not entered into agreements with our VIEs that pledge the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for the benefit of us or our wholly owned subsidiaries. Consequently, the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities are not secured on behalf of our wholly owned subsidiary, and the amounts owed by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities are not collateralized. As a result, if our Consolidated Affiliated Entities fail to pay any amount due to us under, or otherwise breach, the exclusive business service agreements, we will not be able to directly seize the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. If the nominee shareholders of the VIEs do not act in the best interests of us when conflicts of interest arise, or if they act in bad faith towards us, they may attempt to cause the our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to transfer or encumber the assets of the Consolidated Affiliated Entities without our authorization. In such a scenario, we may choose to exercise our option under the call option agreements to demand the shareholders of the VIEs to transfer their respective equity interests in the VIEs to a PRC person designated by us, and we may need to resort to litigation in the PRC courts to effect such an equity interests transfer and prevent the transfer or encumbrance of the VIEs' assets without our authorization. However, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. 19 Table of Contents Any failure by our VIEs or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If our VIEs or any of their respective subsidiaries or schools or any of their respective shareholders fails to perform its obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce our rights under the contracts, and rely on legal remedies under the PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of our VIEs were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in these entities to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. All the material agreements under our contractual arrangements, which are summarized under "Item 4.C.—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities", are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes under the agreements through arbitration in Beijing. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in China is not as developed as some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. The legal owners of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The four legal owners of Xueersi Education and Xueersi Network are Mr. Bangxin Zhang, Mr. Yachao Liu, Mr. Yunfeng Bai and Mr. Yundong Cao, and the three legal owners of Beijing Dongfangrenli are Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu and Mr. Bai. Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu and Mr. Bai are shareholders and directors or officers of TAL Education Group. Mr. Cao is a beneficial owner of TAL Education Group. Mr. Zhang is a director of TAL Education Group. Mr. Liu is a director of Beijing Dongfangrenli. The interests of Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu, Mr. Bai and Mr. Cao as beneficial owners of the VIEs may differ from the interests of our company as a whole, since these parties' respective equity interests in the VIEs may conflict with their respective equity interests in our company. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach, or cause our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to breach, or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. In June 2013, we entered into a deed of undertaking with Mr. Zhang, which prevents Mr. Zhang from using his majority voting power to remove, replace or appoint any of our directors, and from casting any votes he has as our director or shareholder on any resolutions or matters concerning the deed itself. The deed is irrevocable, and applies to any and all periods during which Mr. Zhang beneficially owns share representing more than 50% of the aggregate voting power of our then total issued and outstanding shares. However, there can be no assurance that such arrangement is sufficient to address potential conflicts of interests Mr. Zhang may encounter. Other than this deed of undertaking we have entered into with Mr. Zhang, we currently do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu, Mr. Bai and Mr. Cao may encounter in their capacity as nominee shareholders of the VIEs (and, as applicable, as directors of the VIEs), on the one hand, and as 20 Table of Contents beneficial owners of our company (and, as applicable, director and/or officers of our company), on the other hand. To a large extent, we rely on the legal owners of the VIEs to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, which provide that directors and officers owe a fiduciary duty to our company that requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and these individuals, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including agreements and contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chop or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant local branch of the SAIC. We generally execute legal documents by affixing chops or seals, rather than having the designated legal representatives sign the documents. We have three major types of chops—corporate chops, contract chops and finance chops. We use corporate chops generally for documents to be submitted to government agencies, such as applications for changing business scope, directors or company name, and for legal letters. We use corporate chops or contract chops for executing leases and commercial contracts. We use finance chops generally for making and collecting payments, including, but not limited to issuing invoices. Use of chops must be approved by the responsible departments and follow our internal procedure. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, we generally have them stored in secured locations accessible only to authorized employees. Our designated legal representatives generally do not have access to the chops. Although we monitor such employees and the designated legal representatives, the procedures may not be sufficient to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. There is a risk that our employees or designated legal representatives could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the relevant subsidiary or Consolidated Affiliated Entity with contracts against our interests, as we would be obligated to honor these contracts if the other contracting party acts in good faith in reliance on the apparent authority of our chops or signatures of our legal representatives. If any designated legal representative obtains control of the chop in an effort to obtain control over the relevant entity, we would need to have a shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and to take legal action to seek the return of the chop, apply for a new chop with the relevant authorities, or otherwise seek legal remedies for the legal representative's violation of the duties to us. If any of the authorized employees or designated legal representatives obtain and misuse or misappropriate our chops and seals or other controlling intangible assets for whatever reason, we could experience disruption to our normal business operations. We may have to take corporate or legal action, which could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be subject to significant limitations on their ability to operate private schools or make payments to related parties, or otherwise be materially and adversely affected by changes in PRC laws governing private education providers. The principal regulations governing private education in China are The Law for Promoting Private Education and The Implementation Rules for The Law for Promoting Private Education. Under these regulations, a private school may elect to be a school that does not require reasonable returns or a 21 Table of Contents school that requires reasonable returns. At the end of each fiscal year, every private school is required to allocate a certain amount to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of the school or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment. In the case of a private school that requires reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of the annual net income of the school, while in the case of a private school that does not require reasonable returns, this amount shall be equivalent to no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, if any. A private school that requires reasonable returns must publicly disclose such election and additional information required under the regulations. A private school shall consider factors such as the school's tuition, ratio of the funds used for education-related activities to the course fees collected, admission standards and educational quality when determining the percentage of the school's net income that would be distributed to the investors as reasonable returns. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining "reasonable returns." In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth clear requirements or restrictions on a private school's ability to operate its education business based on such school's status as one that does or does not require reasonable returns. Our schools are registered as schools that require reasonable returns in some cities and as schools that do not require reasonable returns in others. As of the date of this annual report, we have 37 affiliated schools, among which 14 have elected not to require reasonable returns and the remaining 23 have elected to require reasonable returns. The respective sponsor of each school will make such election and determine the amounts to be allocated to each school's development fund in accordance with PRC laws and regulations. We do not believe that the election to be a school that does or does not require reasonable returns will affect amounts that may be distributed to us by means of different fee payments such as service fees. As a holding company, we rely on dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries, including TAL Beijing. TAL Beijing and its designated affiliates are entitled to receive service fees from the schools according to the relevant exclusive business cooperation agreements. We do not believe that TAL Beijing and its designated affiliates' right to receive the service fees from the schools will be affected by such election, but if our judgment turns out to be incorrect, TAL Beijing and our other PRC subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us may be materially and adversely impacted. If a school elects to be a school that does not require reasonable return but in fact pays reasonable return to its sponsor, in extreme cases, PRC government authorities have the right to suspend the operations of the relevant school and suspend student enrollment and perhaps even to de-register the operating permits of such schools altogether, which may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contractual arrangements our subsidiaries have entered into with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or our Consolidated Affiliated Entities owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our wholly owned subsidiaries in China and our Consolidated Affiliated Entities do not represent an arm's-length price and consequently adjust our Consolidated Affiliated Entities' income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for unpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our Consolidated Affiliated Entities' tax liabilities increase or if they are subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 22 Table of Contents If any of our PRC subsidiaries or Consolidated Affiliated Entities becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy certain important assets, which could reduce the size of our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenue and the market price of our ADSs. We currently conduct our operations in China mainly through contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. As part of these arrangements, our Consolidated Affiliated Entities hold operating permits and licenses and some of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. If any of these entities goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have priority pledges and liens against the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. As a contractual and property right matter, this lack of priority pledges and liens has remote risks. If any of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities undergoes an involuntary liquidation proceeding, third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets and we may not have priority against such third-party creditors on the assets. If any of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities liquidates, we may take part in the liquidation procedures as a general creditor under the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law and recover any outstanding liabilities owed by the entity to our PRC subsidiaries under the applicable service agreements. In the event that the shareholders of any of our VIEs initiates a voluntary liquidation proceeding without our authorization or attempts to distribute the retained earnings or assets of the relevant VIE without our prior consent, we may need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce the terms of the contractual agreements. Any such litigation may be costly and may divert our management's time and attention away from the operation of our business, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions in a civil law system may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always consistent, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the available legal protections. In addition, the PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing or enforcing statutory rules and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we may enjoy in China than under some more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may affect our judgment on the relevance of legal requirements and our decisions on the measures and actions to be taken to fully comply therewith and may affect our ability to enforce our contractual or tort rights. In addition, the regulatory uncertainties may be exploited through unmerited legal actions or threats in an attempt to extract payments or benefits from us. Such uncertainties may therefore increase our operating expenses and costs, and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The MoC published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The MoC is currently soliciting comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but "controlled" by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the MoC, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is "controlled" by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, "control" is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% or more of the voting rights or similar equity interest of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights or similar equity interest of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders' meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity's operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, and its investment amount exceeds certain thresholds or its business operation falls within a "negative list," to be separately issued by the State Council in the future, market entry clearance by the MoC or its local counterparts will be required. Otherwise, all foreign investors may make investments on the same terms as domestic investors without being subject to additional approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime. The "variable interest entity" structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See "Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure." Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the "negative list," the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC state-owned enterprises or agencies or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the "negative list" without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. Through our dual-class share structure, Mr. Bangxin Zhang, a PRC citizen, possesses and controls 74.2% of the voting power of our company. However, the draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by PRC parties, while it is soliciting comments from the 24 Table of Contents public on this point. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the industries in which our variable interest entities operate will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the "negative list" to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final "negative list" mandate further actions, such as the MoC market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face uncertainties as to whether such clearance can be timely obtained, or at all. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Uncertainties with respect to PRC regulatory restrictions on after-school services could have a material adverse effect on us. In 2009, the MoE, together with a few other PRC government agencies, issued implementation rules on administration of education-related fee collection, which provide, among other things, that schools that are part of the compulsory education system are not allowed to charge students additional fees for any type of after-school tutoring classes, and that public schools and their teachers, whether or not in cooperation with private schools, are prohibited from offering any type of after-school tutoring or training classes for a fee outside the school. Private schools, which are not part of the compulsory education system, generally are permitted to offer after-school tutoring services pursuant to their private school operating permits issued by the relevant PRC government authorities pursuant to the Law for Promoting Private Education and implementation rules promulgated thereunder. However, several provincial government agencies issued notices or rules applicable in their respective provinces expressly prohibiting even private schools from offering after-school tutoring classes to primary and secondary school students. Among the areas where we offer after-school tutoring services, local governments in Shanghai and Tianjin issued notices in 2004 and 2005, respectively, prohibiting private schools from offering after-school tutoring services to primary and secondary school students. Nevertheless, we are not aware of any instances in Shanghai or Tianjin where the government authorities took actions enforcing the aforementioned notices; nor have we received any notices, warnings or inquiries from these government authorities with respect to our tutoring services. In February 2013, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission issued a Notice on Reducing Schoolwork-Related Stress on Students in Primary and Secondary Schools, which, among other things, strictly prohibits private schools from offering after-school tutoring classes to primary and secondary school students. This notice came into effect in March 2013, but due to its relatively new status, there are uncertainties pertaining to its implementation. The aforementioned notices do not provide any monetary penalties for violations and thus we are not able to quantify the penalties that we may be subject to if we are deemed not to be in compliance with these notices. We are not aware of any imminent risks in connection with the aforementioned notices. However, since PRC regulatory authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing rules and regulations and that regulatory enforcements can be inconsistent, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future be subject to the above mentioned regulations, fined or otherwise penalized by government authorities for offering such classes, in which case our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business and reputation and subject us to liability for information displayed on our websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses, and the closure of the concerned websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the websites. If any of our websites, including those used for our online education business, are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be penalized by relevant authorities, and our operations or reputation could be adversely affected. We are required to obtain various operating licenses and permits and to make registrations and filings for our tutoring services in China; failure to comply with these requirements may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are required to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits and fulfill registration and filing requirements in order to operate our tutoring service business. For instance, a duly approved private school will be granted a private school operating permit, and shall be registered with the Ministry of Civil Affairs or its local branches as a privately run non-enterprise institution. In addition, learning centers of schools must make filings with the MoE or its local branches. As of the date of this annual report, we have 289 learning centers in operation, of which 198 learning centers offer Xueersi Peiyou small-class tutoring services and four learning centers offer Mobby small-class tutoring services. Among the 202 learning centers, 37 learning centers have not completed filing requirements for permits or registrations. These 37 learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 8.8% of our total net revenues for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015. If we fail to comply with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of any gains derived from our non-compliant operations or the suspension of our non-compliant operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are in the process of preparing filings and applying for permits for these learning centers but do not expect to complete all such filings and obtain all such permits in the near term. We have been taking steps to meet these requirements, but there is no assurance that our efforts will result in full compliance given the significant amount of discretion PRC government authorities have in interpreting, implementing and enforcing rules and regulations and due to other factors beyond our control. For example, Shenzhen Municipal Education Bureau ceased accepting applications for the establishment of new private schools between the year of 2006 and December 7, 2010. While we were preparing the application to the Shenzhen educational authorities for the operating permits in Shenzhen, two of our learning centers received notices from the local city administrative departments in March 2012 which required us to obtain the operating permits before we could continue our business in Shenzhen. We later received the private school operating permit for our school in Shenzhen from Shenzhen Municipal Education Bureau in August 2013 and completed the registration with the Shenzhen City Civil Affairs Office in November 2013. For the ten Xueersi Peiyou learning centers operated by our school in Shenzhen, we have completed the required registration with the Shenzhen Municipal Education Bureau. We have been making efforts to ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations in establishing new learning centers, as well as to remediate non-compliances relating to our existing learning centers. In addition, our business and legal teams follow an internal guideline to make necessary filings and obtain necessary permits for new learning centers on a timely basis, and final business decisions are made taking into account the business and legal risks and uncertainties in our 26 Table of Contents expansion plan. However, if we fail to comply with the applicable legal requirements concerning obtaining and maintaining applicable licenses and permits and fulfilling applicable registration and filing requirements to operate our after-school tutoring business, including any failure to cure non compliances in a timely manner, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of the gains derived from our noncompliant operations or the suspension of our noncompliant operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the relevant PRC regulatory authorities subsequently determine that personalized premium services must be operated through schools or for-profit training institutions that meet certain legal requirements, our personalized premium services business would be exposed to increased risks, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Substantially all of the personalized premium services we offer in Beijing are offered through Beijing Huanqiu Zhikang Shidai Education Consulting Co., Ltd., or Huanqiu Zhikang, and Zhixuesi Education Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Zhixuesi Beijing, our wholly owned subsidiaries, both of which are foreign-invested companies under PRC laws. Huanqiu Zhikang and Zhixuesi Beijing together with their branches have obtained business licenses from the Beijing branch of the SAIC, expressly permitting them to conduct "educational consulting services," which we believe covers our personalized premium services in Beijing and are not under the jurisdiction of the Beijing Municipal Education Commission based on telephone inquiries we and our PRC counsel have made to the Beijing Municipal Education Commission. For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, revenues from the personalized premium services of Huanqiu Zhikang and Zhixuesi Beijing contributed approximately 9.4% of our total net revenues. In cities other than Beijing, a significant portion of our personalized premium services is offered through the subsidiaries of our VIEs, and most of these subsidiaries have obtained business licenses from the local branch of the SAIC permitting them to conduct consulting services. However, some of the subsidiaries of our VIEs have not obtained business licenses and a few learning centers which engage in personalized premium services have not obtained operating permits that meet regulatory requirements. For example, Shanghai local educational authority and Shanghai branch of the SAIC published provisional measures in June 2013 regarding the registration and management of for-profit educational institutions to provide the conditions and procedures for setting up for-profit private training institutions in the form of a company and further clarify that other types of companies shall not carry out educational consulting or one-on-one services. These provisional measures became effective on July 20, 2013 and will be in force for two years. We offered personalized premium services in some districts in Shanghai through companies with their business license not permitting them to conduct such consulting services and we have not yet set up companies in Shanghai to meet regulatory requirements in accordance with the aforementioned rules. In addition, five learning centers in Xi'an are operated by a subsidiary of a VIE without the scope of "educational consulting services" for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, revenues from the personalized premium services of such subsidiaries of our VIEs in Shanghai and Xi'an contributed approximately 1.4% of our total net revenues. We believe that our personalized premium services fall within the scope of "for-profit training activities" and are not "educational activities" that must be under the jurisdiction of the educational authorities and thus offered through schools or educational institutions. However, the differences between "educational activities," on the one hand, and "for-profit training activities" and "educational consulting services," on the other hand, remain unclear under applicable PRC laws and regulations. The Law for Promoting Private Education provides that "educational activities," which are required to be conducted through schools or educational institutions, shall be regulated by the MoE whereas "for-profit training activities" shall be regulated by the SAIC in accordance with separate regulations to be issued by the State Council. To date, the State Council has not promulgated any regulations with respect to "for-profit training activities." In July 2010, the MoE issued the National Guidance on Mid- 27 Table of Contents to Long-term Education Reform and Development, which is the first guidance expressly encouraging the applicable PRC government authorities to classify, through implementing rules or regulations, activities as "for-profit training activities" to be conducted only by for-profit entities or "non-profit training or educational activities" to be conducted only by certain schools. However, to date, the SAIC and the MoE have not issued any such rules or regulations, and in practice, regulators in different local jurisdictions may still have different views and administrative policies on one-on-one tutoring activities. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the relevant government authorities will reach the same conclusion in the future as we have that our personalized premium services fall within the scope of "for-profit training activities" and are not "educational activities." If the relevant PRC regulatory authorities subsequently determine that our personalized premium services must be operated through schools or educational institutions, as opposed to through companies, or if the local branch of the SAIC subsequently determines that our personalized premium services must be operated through companies that hold business licenses to cover for-profit training services or educational consulting services, we may be required to restructure our operations to offer personalized premium services through the schools owned by our VIEs. We may also be subject to fines of up to RMB100,000 for each of our subsidiaries that offers personalized premium services, suspension of our personalized premium services or other penalties, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy in China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the degree of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and currency conversion, access to financing and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments, conversion of foreign exchange into Renminbi or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, future actions or policies of the PRC government to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or PRC economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the PRC economy since 2012. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world's leading economies. There have also been concerns over unrest in Ukraine, the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets. In addition, there have been concerns about the territorial disputes involving China in Asia and the economic effects. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in the past decade, that growth may not continue, as evidenced by the slowing of the growth of the PRC economy since 2012. Any severe or 28 Table of Contents prolonged slowdown in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Increases in labor costs in China may adversely affect our business and our profitability. The economy of China has been experiencing increases in labor costs in recent years. The overall economy and the average wage in China are expected to continue to grow. The average wage level for our employees has increased in recent years. In addition, we are required by PRC laws and regulations to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. It is up to the relevant government agencies to determine whether an employer has made adequate payments of the requisite statutory employee benefits, and those employers who fail to make adequate payments may be subject to late payment fees, fines and/or other penalties. We expect that our labor costs, including wages and employee benefits, will continue to increase. Unless we are able to pass on these increased labor costs to our students by increasing prices for our services or improving the utilization of our teachers and our staff, our profitability and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our ADSs and common shares. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. PRC companies are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their statutory surplus reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. The PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. In addition, PRC companies may allocate a portion of their after-tax profit to their staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of their boards of directors. Our PRC subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities historically have not allocated any of their after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, since there is no legal requirement to do so, but they may nevertheless decide to set aside such funds in the future. There is no maximum amount of after-tax profit that a company may contribute to such funds. Moreover, each of our affiliated schools is required to allocate certain amount of profits to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of school facilities or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment at the end of each fiscal year. See "Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Private Education—The Law for Promoting Private Education and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education" for a discussion on the requirements for private schools to make allocations to school development funds. Any direct or indirect limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions at the holding company level, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 29 Table of Contents PRC laws and regulations may limit the use of the proceeds we received from our initial public offering or other financing activities for our investment or operations in China. In utilizing the proceeds we received from our initial public offering in October 2010 or from other financing activities, such as the offering of convertible senior notes in May 2014, as an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may (i) make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, (ii) establish new PRC subsidiaries and make capital contributions to these new PRC subsidiaries, (iii) make loans to our PRC subsidiaries or our VIEs, or (iv) acquire offshore entities with business operations in China in an offshore transaction. However, most of these uses are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • capital contributions to our subsidiaries in China, whether existing ones or newly established ones, must be approved by the MoC or its local branches and must also be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local branches; • loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local branches; and • loans by us to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, which are domestic PRC entities, must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and must also be registered with the SAFE or its local branches. In addition, on August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of its capital contribution in foreign currency into Renminbi, or SAFE Circular 142, which requires that RMB converted from foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the relevant government authority and may not be used to make equity investments in China, unless specifically provided otherwise. Moreover, the approved use of such RMB funds may not be changed without approval from the SAFE. RMB funds converted from foreign exchange may not be used to repay loans in RMB if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Any violation of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines. We expect that if we convert the net proceeds from offshore offerings into RMB pursuant to SAFE Circular 142, our use of RMB funds will be for purposes within the approved business scope of our PRC subsidiaries. However, we may not be able to use such RMB funds to make equity investments in China through our PRC subsidiaries. On March 30, 2015, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Reforming the Management Method relating to Conversion of the Capital Contribution of Foreign Invested Company from Foreign Exchange to Renminbi, or SAFE Circular 19. Although SAFE Circular 142 will be abolished once SAFE Circular 19 becomes effective on June 1, 2015, the foregoing rules have been retained in SAFE Circular 19. Furthermore, the SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or SAFE Circular 59, which, among other things, requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents, or otherwise approved by the board of directors. For example, as we apply with the SAFE to convert the proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes into RMB funds for use of such funds in China, they need to be used in accordance with the offering documents of the notes, or when the proposed use of the proceeds is inconsistent with what is set forth in the offering documents, we need to submit the board resolution in relation to such proposed use of proceeds to the SAFE and the settlement of foreign exchange for such use of proceeds shall comply with the PRC regulations in relation to foreign exchange. We expect that PRC laws and regulations may continue to limit our use of proceeds from offshore offerings. There are no costs associated with registering loans or capital contributions with relevant PRC government authorities, other than nominal processing charges. Under PRC laws and regulations, 30 Table of Contents the PRC government authorities are required to process such approvals or registrations or deny our application within a prescribed period which is usually less than 90 days. The actual time taken, however, may be longer due to administrative delay. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future plans to use the U.S. dollar proceeds we receive from offshore offerings for our investment and operations in China. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of offshore offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary's ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-Trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 75, requires PRC residents to register with the relevant local branch of the SAFE before establishing or controlling any company outside China, referred to as an offshore special purpose company, for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire or exchange the assets of, or acquiring equity interests in, PRC entities held by such PRC residents and to update such registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to that offshore company. The SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents' Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, on July 4, 2014, which replaced SAFE Circular 75. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of the SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents' legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a "special purpose vehicle". The term "control" under SAFE Circular 37 is broadly defined as the operation rights, beneficiary rights or decision-making rights acquired by the PRC residents in the offshore special purpose vehicles by such means as acquisition, trust, proxy, voting rights, repurchase, convertible bonds or other arrangements. SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any changes with respect to the basic information of the special purpose vehicle, such as changes in a PRC resident individual shareholder, name or operation period; or any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. If the shareholders of the offshore holding company who are PRC residents do not complete their registration with the local SAFE branches, the PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore company, and the offshore company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital to its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We believe that all of our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents have completed their required registrations with the SAFE in accordance with SAFE Circular 75 prior to, and immediately after, the completion of our initial public offering in October 2010. Our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents have make the necessary applications, filings and amendments required by the SAFE to reflect the establishment of some new subsidiaries, name changes to some of our subsidiaries and changes to their shareholding. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with rules and requirements of the SAFE; nor can we ensure you that their registrations, if they choose to apply, will be successful. The failure or inability of 31 Table of Contents our PRC resident beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with these requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC operations, limit our PRC subsidiary's ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The M&A rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely the MoC, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted regulations, commonly referred to as the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MoC be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MoC, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in China could adversely affect our overall results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, an enterprise qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15%. The status of High and New Technology Enterprise may be retained subject to annual re-examination. From January 1, 2011, Xueersi Education was eligible for retention of High and New Technology Enterprise status and therefore was entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% until the end of calendar year 2013. From January 1, 2014, Xueersi Education was again eligible for retention of High and New Technology Enterprise status, and is therefore entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% until the end of calendar year 2016. Our wholly owned subsidiary, TAL Beijing, was qualified as a Newly Established Software Enterprise under the EIT Law and therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2009 to 2010 and a further tax reduction to 50% of the applicable rate from calendar year 2011 to 2013. Moreover, TAL Beijing was qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise from January 1, 2014, and is therefore entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% from calendar year 2014 to 2016. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Yidu Huida Education Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or Yidu Huida, was qualified as a Newly Established Software Enterprise under the EIT law, and therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2011 to 2012 and enjoys a further tax reduction to 50% of the applicable rate from calendar year 2013 to 2015. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Beijing Xintang Sichuang Education Technology Co., Ltd., or Beijing Xintang Sichuang, was also qualified as a Newly Established Software Enterprise under the EIT Law and was therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2013 to 2014 and enjoys a further reduction to a tax rate of 12.5% from calendar year 2015 to 2017. We cannot assure you, however, that the tax authorities will not in the future change their position on our preferential tax treatments or that our subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities will be able to pass their respective annual re-examination and obtain preferential tax treatment. Further, the preferential tax treatments granted to us by government authorities may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us will 32 Table of Contents cause our effective tax rate to increase, which will increase our income tax expenses and in turn decrease our net income. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a PRC "resident enterprise". Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside China with "de facto management body" within China is considered a "resident enterprise," meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a PRC enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, although the dividends paid to one resident enterprise from another may be qualified as "tax-exempt income." The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as "substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties" of the enterprise. A circular issued by the SAT on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a "resident enterprise" with its "de facto management body" located within China if all of the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function are mainly in China; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in China; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders' meetings are located or kept in China; and (iv) at least half of the enterprise's directors with voting right or senior management reside in China. In addition, the SAT issued a bulletin on August 3, 2011, effective as of September 1, 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of the above circular. The bulletin clarified certain matters relating to resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of a PRC tax resident determination certificate from a resident PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the PRC-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise. Although both the circular and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those by PRC individuals, the determination criteria set forth in the circular and administration clarification made in the bulletin may reflect the SAT's general position on how the "de facto management body" test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and the administration measures should be implemented, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. As substantially all of our management members are based in China, it remains unclear how the tax residency rule will apply to our case. We believe that none of our offshore holding companies should be treated as a "resident enterprise" for PRC tax purposes. However, as the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities, there are uncertainties and risks associated with this issue. If the PRC tax authorities determine that any of our offshore holding companies are "resident enterprises" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is a "tax-exempt income," we cannot guarantee that dividends paid to TAL Education Group from our PRC subsidiaries through TAL Holding Limited, or TAL Hong Kong, or dividends paid from our PRC subsidiaries to Yidu Technology Group, which is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, through Yidu Technology Group Limited, which is incorporated in Hong Kong, would qualify as "tax-exempt income" and will not be subject to withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as "resident enterprises" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, the "resident enterprise" classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise 33 Table of Contents shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC and enterprise shareholders from transferring our notes, shares or ADSs, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. This could have the effect of increasing our and our shareholders' effective income tax rates and may require us to deduct withholding tax from any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. In addition to the uncertainties regarding how the "resident enterprise" classification may apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the Arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, dividends declared after January 1, 2008 and distributed to our Hong Kong subsidiaries by our PRC subsidiaries are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that our Hong Kong subsidiaries are deemed by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be "non-PRC resident enterprises" under the EIT Law and hold at least 25% of the equity interest of our PRC subsidiaries. The SAT promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement on October 27, 2009, or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a jurisdiction with tax treaties with China is the "beneficial owner" of an item of income under PRC tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must engage in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Although we may use our Hong Kong subsidiaries as a platform to expand our business in the future, our Hong Kong subsidiaries currently do not engage in any substantive business activities and thus it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries may not be regarded as "beneficial owners" for the purposes of SAT Circular 601 and the dividends they receive from our PRC subsidiaries would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. We face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the SAT on December 10, 2009, where a foreign investor transfers the equity interests of a resident enterprise indirectly via disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an "indirect transfer," and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor shall report the indirect transfer to the competent tax authority. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the indirect transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an "abusive arrangement" in order to avoid PRC tax, it may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the indirect transfer and as a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. On February 6, 2015, the SAT issued the Announcement of the State Administration of Taxation on Several Issues Concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on Indirect Property Transfer by Non-Resident Enterprises, or SAT Bulletin 7, which terminated the aforementioned articles of SAT Circular 698. Pursuant to SAT Bulletin 7, where a non-resident enterprise indirectly transfers properties such as equity in PRC resident enterprises without any justifiable business purposes and aiming to avoid the payment of enterprise income tax, such indirect transfer must be reclassified as a direct transfer of equity in PRC resident enterprise. To assess whether an indirect transfer of PRC taxable properties has 34 Table of Contents reasonable commercial purposes, all arrangements related to the indirect transfer must be considered comprehensively and factors set forth in SAT Bulletin 7 must be comprehensively analyzed in light of the actual circumstances. SAT Bulletin 7 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the competent tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. There is little practical experience regarding the application of SAT Bulletin 7 because it was newly issued in February 2015. During the effective period of SAT Circular 698, some intermediary holding companies were actually looked through by the PRC tax authorities, and consequently the non-PRC resident investors were deemed to have transferred the PRC subsidiaries and PRC corporate taxes were assessed accordingly. It is possible that we or our non-PRC resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Bulletin 7 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Bulletin 7 or to establish that we or our non-PRC resident investors should not be taxed under SAT Bulletin 7, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-PRC resident investors' investment in us. We face risks and uncertainties with respect to the licensing requirement for Internet audio-video programs. On December 20, 2007, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT (which was merged with the General Administration of Press and Publication in 2013 to form the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or SAPPRFT), and the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII (which was superseded in 2008 by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT), issued the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that no entities or individuals may provide Internet audio-video program services without a License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network issued by the SARFT or SAPPRFT (as applicable) or the relevant local branches or completing the relevant registration with the SARFT or SAPPRFT (as applicable) or the relevant local branches, and only entities wholly owned or controlled by the PRC government may engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transmission to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, or the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. On February 3, 2008, the SARFT and the MII jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, during which the SARFT and the MII officials indicated that providers of audio-video program services established prior to the promulgation date of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can re-register with the relevant government authorities to continue their current business operations. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirmed the above guidelines. There are still significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in particular, the scope of Internet Audio-Video Programs. Furthermore, on April 1, 2010, the SARFT promulgated the Test Implementation of the Tentative Categories of Internet Audio-Visual Program Services, or the Categories, which clarified the scope of Internet audio-video programs services. According to the Categories, there are four categories of Internet audio-visual program services which are further divided into seventeen sub-categories. The third sub-category to the second category covers the making and editing of certain specialized audio-video programs concerning, among other things, educational content, and broadcasting such content to the general public online. We began offering online courses in 2010 www.xueersi.com, and in the fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, 2014 and 2015, revenues derived from audio-video program services offered through 35 Table of Contents www.xueersi.com that may be subject to the Audio-Video Program Measures were 3.1%, 3.0% and 3.6%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In the course of offering online tutoring services, we transmit our audio-video educational courses and programs through the Internet only to enrolled students, not to the general public. The limited scope of our audience distinguishes us from general online audio-video broadcasting companies, such as companies operating user-generated content websites. In addition, we do not provide audio-video program uploading and transmission services. As a result, we believe that we are not subject to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. However, there is no further official or publicly available interpretation of these definitions, especially the scope of Internet audio-video program service. If the government authorities determine that our provision of online tutoring services falls within the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, we may not be able to obtain the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network. If this occurs, we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in PRC political and economic conditions and PRC foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollar, is based on rates set by the People's Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the Renminbi fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. After June 2010, the Renminbi began to appreciate against the U.S. dollar again, although there have been some periods when it has depreciated against the U.S. dollar, as it did for example during 2014. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility between the Renminbi and foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under our current corporate structure, our income will be primarily derived from a share of the earnings from our PRC subsidiaries. Revenues of our PRC subsidiaries are all denominated in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay 36 Table of Contents dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for any PRC company, dividends can be declared and paid only out of the retained earnings of that company under PRC law. Furthermore, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Specifically, under the existing exchange restrictions, without a prior approval of the SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our subsidiaries in China may be used to pay dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to TAL Education Group through our Hong Kong subsidiaries and pay employees of our PRC subsidiaries who are located outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. With a prior approval from the SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be used to pay off debt in a currency other than the RMB owed by our subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities to entities outside China, and make other capital expenditures outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Employee participants in our share incentive plan who are PRC citizens may be required to register with the SAFE. We also face regulatory uncertainties in China that could restrict our ability to grant restricted shares or share options to our employees who are PRC citizens. To implement the Administrative Rule on Foreign Exchange Matters of Individuals promulgated by the People's Bank of China and its related implementing rule provided by the SAFE, on March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Incentive Plan and Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed 37 Table of Contents Company, or SAFE Circular 78. For any plans adopted by an overseas listed company that are covered by SAFE Circular 78, it requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to register, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, with the SAFE or its local branch. In addition, SAFE Circular 78 also requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to follow a series of requirements, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas, opening of special bank accounts and filings with the SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock options. On January 7, 2008, the SAFE issued Notice on Relinquishing Power of Approving the First-time Application of Foreign Exchange Purchase Quotas, Opening of Special Bank Accounts. According to this notice, the local SAFE branches at provincial level have the authority to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in connection with equity compensation plans or incentive plans. Pursuant to the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in a Stock Incentive Plan of an Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, or SAFE Circular 7, which terminated both SAFE Circular 78 and the Notice on Relinquishing Power of Approving the First-time Application of Foreign Exchange Purchase Quotas, Opening of Special Bank Accounts issued by the SAFE on January 7, 2008, a qualified PRC agent (which could be the PRC subsidiary of the overseas-listed company) is required to file, on behalf of "domestic individuals" (both PRC residents and non-PRC residents who reside in China for a continuous period of not less than one year, excluding the foreign diplomatic personnel and representatives of international organizations) who are granted shares or share options by the overseas-listed company according to its stock incentive plan, an application with the SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan, and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the stock purchase or stock option exercise. Such PRC individuals' foreign exchange income received from the sale of stocks and dividends distributed by the overseas listed company and any other income shall be fully remitted into a collective foreign currency account in the PRC opened and managed by the PRC domestic agent before distribution to such individuals. In addition, such domestic individuals must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options and their purchase and sale of stock. The PRC domestic agent also needs to update registration with the SAFE within three months after the overseas-listed company materially changes its stock incentive plan or make any new stock incentive plans. Prior to the issuance of SAFE Circular 7, we received approval from the SAFE's Beijing branch in January 2012 in regards to applications we had submitted on behalf of certain of our employees who hold a significant number of restricted shares. Upon the issuance of SAFE Circular 7, we renewed our registration on behalf of these employees in accordance with SAFE Circular 7 as SAFE Circular 78 ceased to be applicable for such registration. From time to time, we need to apply for or to update our registration with the SAFE or its local branches on behalf of our employees who are granted options or registered shares under our share incentive plan or material changes in our current share incentive plan. However, we may not always be able to make applications or update our registration on behalf of our employees who hold our restricted shares in compliance with SAFE Circular 7, nor can we ensure you that such applications or update of registration will be successful. If we or the participants of our share incentive plan who are PRC citizens fail to comply with SAFE Circular 7, we and/or such participants of our share incentive plan may be subject to fines and legal sanctions, there may be additional restrictions on the ability of such participants to exercise their stock options or remit proceeds gained from sale of their stock into China, and we may be prevented from further granting restricted shares or from granting options under our share incentive plan to our employees who are PRC citizens. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. 38 Table of Contents If additional remedial measures are imposed on the "big four" PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging such firms' failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC with respect to requests for the production of documents, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Starting in 2011 the PRC affiliates of the "big four" accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm) were affected by a conflict between U.S. and PRC law. Specifically, for certain U.S.-listed companies operating and audited in mainland China, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain from the PRC firms access to their audit work papers and related documents. The firms were, however, advised and directed that under PRC law they could not respond directly to the U.S. regulators on those requests, and that requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China had to be channeled through the CSRC. In late 2012, this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. A first instance trial of the proceedings in July 2013 in the SEC's internal administrative court resulted in an adverse judgment against the firms. The administrative law judge proposed penalties on the firms including a temporary suspension of their right to practice before the SEC, although that proposed penalty did not take effect pending review by the SEC. On February 6, 2015, before SEC's review had taken place, the firms reached a settlement with the SEC. Under the settlement, the SEC accepts that future requests by the SEC for the production of documents will normally be made to the CSRC. The firms will receive matching Section 106 requests, and are required to abide by a detailed set of procedures with respect to such requests, which in substance require them to facilitate production via the CSRC. If they fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains the authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. Remedies for any future noncompliance could include, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a single firm's performance of certain audit work, commencement of a new proceeding against a firm, or in extreme cases the resumption of the current proceeding against all four firms. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in China, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC-based, U.S.-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the New York Stock Exchange on October 20, 2010, the closing prices of 39 Table of Contents our ADSs have ranged from $7.3 to $38.25 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on May 27, 2015 was $36.49 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, • changes in the economic performance or market valuation of other education companies, • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, • addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel, • detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry, • intellectual property litigation, and • general economic, regulatory or political conditions in China and the United States. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some PRC-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these PRC-based companies' securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC-based companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other PRC-based companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards PRC-based companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Further, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our ADS price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted restricted shares under our share incentive plan. Moreover, we expect that the trading price of our convertible senior notes will be significantly affected by the market price of our ADSs. On the other hand, the price of the ADSs could also be affected by possible sales of the ADSs by investors who view our convertible senior notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving the ADSs. This trading activity could, in turn, affect the trading prices of our convertible senior notes. Our dual-class voting structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our common shares are divided into Class A common shares and Class B common shares. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. We issued Class A common shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering in October 2010. As part of the redesignation of our capital structure at the time of our initial public offering, all of our existing shareholders as of September 29, 2010, including our 40 Table of Contents founders, received Class B common shares, and our outstanding preferred shares were automatically converted into Class B common shares immediately prior to the completion of our initial public offering. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. Each Class B common share is convertible into one Class A common share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A common shares are not convertible into Class B common shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B common shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B common shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A common shares. In addition, if at any time, any of the persons who held Class B common shares immediately before our initial public offering and their affiliates collectively own less than 5% of the total number of the issued and outstanding Class B common shares, each issued and outstanding Class B common share owned by such Class B holder shall be automatically and immediately converted into one share of Class A common share, and no Class B common shares shall be issued by us thereafter. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, As of May 8, 2015, holders of our Class B common shares (excluding any Class A common shares such holder may hold in the form of ADSs) collectively hold approximately 89.0% the voting power of our outstanding shares and have considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and their affiliated entities. As of May 8, 2015, our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 44.8% of our total outstanding shares, representing 89.0% of our total voting power. These shareholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions and they may not act in the best interests of other minority shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities depends, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the K-12 after-school tutoring market in China in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales or the expectation of substantial sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market and after the convertible senior notes offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our ADSs to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. We have Class A 41 Table of Contents and Class B common shares outstanding, including Class A common shares represented by ADSs. All of our ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Class A common shares not represented by ADS, such as grants of restricted Class A common shares which have vested, and Class B common shares are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. To the extent shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. A number of the ADSs are reserved for issuance upon conversion of our convertible senior notes. The conversion of some or all of the convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and holders of the ADSs. The issuance and sale of a substantial number of ADSs, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our convertible senior notes and the market price of the ADSs and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, several of our shareholders have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration of these shares. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders' opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A common shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our Class A common shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our common shares and ADSs may be diluted. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders' meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders' meeting. 42 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on our common shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on common shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Conversion of our convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the ordinary shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the market price of our ordinary shares. 43 Table of Contents Provisions of our convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. In May 2014, we issued $200 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2019. Additionally, we granted to the initial purchasers of the notes a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $30 million in principal amount of notes. Upon the exercise of such option by certain initial purchasers, we issued an aggregate of $230 in aggregate principal amount of the notes. Certain provisions of our convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For instance, holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The indentures for these convertible notes define a "fundamental change" to include, among other things: (1) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our Class A common shares or the ADSs as a result of which these securities would be converted into, or exchanged for, shares, other securities, other property or assets; (2) any share exchange, consolidation or merger involving our company as a result of which holders of our call classes of common equity do not own 50% of all classes of common equity of the surviving corporation; (3) sale, lease or other transfer of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party; (4) the adoption of any plan relating to the dissolution or liquidation of our company; or (4) our ADSs ceasing to be listed on a major U.S. national securities exchange. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China against us or our management. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman 44 Table of Contents Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, since we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of the Cayman Islands, it is difficult for you to bring an action against us based upon PRC laws in the event that you believe that your rights as a shareholder have been infringed. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or common shares. Under U.S. federal income tax law, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income (the "asset test"). Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our VIEs and their respective subsidiaries as being owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of the VIEs and their respective subsidiaries for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current and any subsequent taxable year. While we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC for the current taxable year or the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given in this regard because the determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC is a fact-intensive inquiry made on an annual basis that depends, in part, on the composition of our income and assets. Fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years because the value of assets for the purpose of the asset test may be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs from time to time (which may be volatile). The composition of our income and assets may also be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where our revenue from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our revenue from activities that produce non-passive income, or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—General") may be subject to reporting requirements and may incur significantly increased U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or common shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or common shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an "excess distribution" under the U.S. federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or common shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or common shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding and disposing of ADSs or common shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information see "Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—PFIC Considerations" and "Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—PFIC Rules." 45 Table of Contents 