Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the preceding “Business” section of this Report, before engaging in any transaction in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects, and cause the value of our securities to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Generally: Our financial condition creates doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. If we do not continue as a going concern, investors may lose their entire investment. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. We had negative cash flows from operating activities of $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and an accumulated deficit of $70.2 million at December 31, 2012. While we had working capital of $16.6 million at December 31, 2012, our current assets at December 31, 2012 included $2.1 million of restricted cash and receivables totaling $21.8 million (consisting of $6.1 million of net notes receivable, $10.9 million of accounts receivable and $4.8 million of receivables from advances to aggregators). The independent auditors’ report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of the date this Report was filed with the Commission, management expects that our cash flows from operations and remaining unrestricted cash since completion of our merger with Net Element will not be sufficient to fund our current operations through 2013. We will require significant additional capital in order to continue our existing business operations and to fund our obligations contemplated by our proposed acquisition of Unified Payments (see “Recent Developments” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report). We currently believe that we will require an additional $12 million in financing to continue operations as currently conducted, complete our acquisition of Unified Payments, continue the operations of Unified Payments’ and our combined payment processing businesses and to pay for other currently anticipated capital expenditures over the next 12 months. We have historically been dependent upon our director and majority stockholder, Mike Zoi (including entities directly or indirectly controlled by Mr. Zoi), and/or other affiliates of the Company, to fund our operations and we are exploring additional sources of financing in order to meet our financial requirements. Additional funds may be raised through debt financing and/or the issuance of equity securities, there being no assurance that any type of financing on terms satisfactory to us will be available or otherwise occur. Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether we generate revenues or cash flows from operations and may be secured by substantially all of our assets. Any equity financing or debt financing that requires the issuance of equity securities or warrants to the lender would cause the percentage ownership by our current stockholders to be diluted, which dilution may be substantial. Also, any additional equity securities issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If such financings are not available when required or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects and may ultimately require us to suspend or cease operations, which could cause investors to lose the entire amount of their investment. 14 We have a significant amount of outstanding receivables, which, if not collected, may have material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and future business prospects. Our current assets as of December 31, 2012 totaled approximately $27.9 million. This amount includes approximately $10.9 million of outstanding receivables (representing 39% of our total current assets at December 31, 2012), $6.1 million of net notes receivable and $4.8 million of outstanding advances to aggregators. Aggregators are businesses that contract for content from hundreds or thousands of content providers and provide aggregated processing volume to TOT Money. Due to our limited experience with advances to aggregators, our management has determined to maintain a reserve of approximately 10% of the outstanding balance as a general reserve for these unsecured advances. As of December 31, 2012, we reserved $550,000 on an outstanding aggregator advance balance of $5.3 million. Our outstanding notes receivable as of December 31, 2012 consisted of a $5.2 million principal amount loan to RM Invest, which is a payment processing business in Russia whose payment processing systems are currently used by TOT Money, and a $1.8 million loan to Infratont Equities, Inc. Through April 12, 2013, Infratont Equities repaid $900,000 of its loan. However, as of December 31, 2012, we recorded a reserve for loan losses of $891,475 relating to the loan to Infratont Equities primarily because we were unable to review the financial information or the collateral value of the borrower as of that date. While, as of the date of filing this Report with the Commission, we were not aware of any additional potential issues with the collectability of our outstanding receivables, if any significant portion of our outstanding receivables were not collected it may have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our future business prospects. We have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. For that reason, it would be difficult for a potential investor to judge our prospects for success. We recently launched the operations of our mobile payment processing business during the third quarter of 2012. In addition, since April 1, 2010, we have pursued a strategy to develop and acquire technology and applications for use in the online media industry. We completed our first significant acquisition in furtherance of that strategy on December 14, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues from our existing operations, or whether our proposed future operations will be implemented successfully or that we will ever have profits. If we are unable to successfully maintain and continue developing our operations, you may lose your entire investment. We face all of the risks inherent in a new business, including the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with conducting operations, including the need for significant additional capital and management’s potential underestimation of initial and ongoing costs. As a new business, we may encounter delays and other problems in connection with developing our operations and our Internet websites, applications and technologies. We also face the risk that we may not be able to effectively implement our business plans and strategies. In evaluating our business and prospects, these difficulties should be considered. If we are not effective in addressing these risks, we will not operate profitably and we may not have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they come due. 15 Our management has identified continued material weaknesses in our internal controls as of December 31, 2012, which, if not properly remedied, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As described in Item 9A of this Report, management has identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012: (i) inadequate policies and procedures regarding the design of the control and formal written documentation; (ii) inadequate segregation of duties related to job responsibilities for initiating, authorizing, and recording of certain transactions; (iii) because our audit committee was recently composed and we recently added certain new directors and executive management and recently changed the composition of our subsidiaries, there has been insufficient time to establish adequate Best of Practice procedures; (iv) as a result of our relatively small accounting staff and not having the required infrastructure for meeting the demands of being a U.S. public company, we have identified deficiencies in our internal controls within our key business processes, particularly with respect to the design of quarterly accounting, financial statements close, consolidation and external financial reporting procedures; (v) we lack general computer controls surrounding the billing and financial reporting system in one of our Russian subsidiaries; and (vi) our management has limited ability to monitor the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls. These material weaknesses impede the ability of management to adequately oversee our internal control over financial reporting on a consistent basis. Management intends to focus its remediation efforts in the near term on designing revised accounting and financial reporting policies and procedures that will help ensure that adequate internal controls over financial reporting are met. Additionally, these revised procedures will be formally documented and procedures will focus on transaction processing, period-end account analyses and providing for additional review and monitoring procedures and periodically assess the need for additional accounting resources as our business develops and resources permit. If we are not able to adequately address the material weaknesses in our internal controls, it is possible that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be timely prevented or detected. Any failure in preventing or detecting a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial results could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and on our results of operations, could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing as needed and could have additional material adverse consequences. Acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our stockholders and other harmful consequences. We have built our current business primarily through acquisitions of intellectual property and other assets, and we intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. Most recently, on March 8, 2013, we entered into a binding term sheet to acquire all of the business assets of Unified Payments, LLC, a provider of transaction processing services and payment-enabling technologies to small, medium and large merchants across the United States (for additional information, see “Recent Developments” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report). Future acquisitions (including our proposed acquisition of Unified Payments) could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Foreign acquisitions also involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not accurately assess the value or prospects of acquisition candidates, and the anticipated benefits from our future or even past acquisitions may not materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, the incurrence of significant amounts of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could negatively affect our financial condition. We are dependent upon certain key relationships. If any of our key relationships were to deteriorate, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success, particularly the success of our payment processing business, is dependent, in part, upon industry relationships of certain of our directors, including our director, Kenges Rakishev, and our director and majority stockholder, Mike Zoi. If we were to lose the services of Mr. Rakishev or Mr. Zoi, or if the industry relationships of Mr. Rakishev or Mr. Zoi on which we rely were to deteriorate, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. To our knowledge, neither Mr. Rakishev nor Mr. Zoi currently has any plans to retire or leave us in the near future, and we are not aware of any material adverse developments in Mr. Rakishev’s or Mr. Zoi’s industry relationships. We do not have “key person” insurance on the lives of Mr. Rakishev or Mr. Zoi or any other member of our management team. 16 We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our systems, websites and applications are continuously accessible. It is important to our success that users be able to use our systems and access our websites and applications at all times. We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform simultaneously, and denial of service, fraud or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the availability of our systems, websites and applications, especially during peak usage times and as our solutions become more complex and our user traffic increases. If our systems, websites or applications are unavailable when users attempt to access them or they do not operate or load as quickly as they expect, our business partners may discontinue using our services, and users of our websites may seek other services to obtain the information they seek and may not return to our websites as often in the future or at all. This would negatively impact our ability to maintain and increase our payment processing business and attract users and advertisers to our websites. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our systems, websites and applications and to enable rapid releases of new versions and new content and features. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technologies and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, competitors may create and market products and services similar to ours. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by third parties. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon the proprietary nature of our technologies and software platforms. We generally rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law to protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual properties. We (directly and through certain of our subsidiaries) own and have applied for certain trademarks or service marks, including the marks “Net Element,” “Motorsport.com,” “Music1,” “Openfilm,” “Openfilm Launchpad” and “LegalGuru.” Certain of our employees and/or consultants have several pending patent applications, including a patent application for a mobile social networking application, a patent application related to Launchpad and a patent application related to Music Brain. We are in the process of seeking to have each of these patent applications assigned to us or one of our subsidiaries. We otherwise currently rely primarily on trade secret and copyright law to protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual properties. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies through trade secrets, trademarks, patents and license and other agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, if we license our software to non-U.S. countries, because of differences in foreign laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual properties may not receive the same degree of protection in non-U.S. countries as they would in the United States. Although our customers use our proprietary software in object code form, no assurance can be given that unauthorized third parties will not be able to copy such software. We may not always be able to successfully protect or enforce our proprietary properties against competitors, which may materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently utilize existing technologies to develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours, which also could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although we do not believe that our intellectual properties infringe the rights of others and while to date we have not been subject to such claims, we may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by other parties alleging that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination in any intellectual property claim could require us to pay damages and/or stop using our technologies and other material found to be in violation of another party’s rights and could prevent us from licensing our technologies to others. In order to avoid these restrictions, we may have to seek a license. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, could require us to pay significant license fees and may significantly increase our operating expenses. A license also may not be available to us at all. As a result, we may be required to use and/or develop non-infringing alternatives, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot obtain a license or develop alternatives for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our technologies and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Further, from time to time we may be engaged in disputes regarding the licensing of our intellectual property rights, including matters related to the terms of our licensing arrangements. These types of disputes can be asserted by our licensees or prospective licensees or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief or in regulatory actions. Requests for monetary and injunctive remedies asserted in claims like these could be material and could have a significant impact on our business prospects. Any disputes with our licensees, potential licensees or other third parties could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results. We earn revenues and interest income, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In the year ended December 31, 2012, we used two functional currencies - the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble - in addition to the U.S. dollar and derived more than 90% of our total net revenues from operations outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate net revenues, interest income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect the amounts of our net revenues, interest income, operating expenses and the value of balance sheet items, including intercompany assets and obligations. Because our operations are concentrated in Russia and Ukraine, our exchange rate risk is highly sensitive to the prevailing value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar against the Ukraine hryvnia and the Russian ruble, may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretations, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet and companies transmitting user information and payments via text message or other electronic means, many of which are still evolving and the interpretation of which are often uncertain. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and/or fines. The services of TOT Money to mobile phone carriers also are subject to certain of the rules and policies of such carriers and ongoing contractual covenants with such carriers, the violation of which may result in penalties and/or fines and possible termination of TOT Money’s services. For additional information, see “Business Description - Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Poor perception of our brand, business or industry could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in part on our reputation within our industries and with our clients and consumers. We may be the subject of unflattering reports in blogs, video blogs and the media about our business and our business model. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to obtain and retain contracts with mobile phone carriers, content providers, advertisers and other customers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. 18 Our business is subject to the risks of hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from hurricanes, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications outages, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. Our U.S. corporate offices are located in Miami, Florida, which is an area that is at high risk of hurricane and flood damage. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. The servers that we use through various third party service providers are not located in Miami, Florida but may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Such service providers may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, and our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt our customers’ respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. We are effectively controlled by Mike Zoi, our majority stockholder and a member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Zoi’s interests may conflict with the interests of our outside stockholders, who may be unable to influence management and exercise control over our business. Mike Zoi, our majority stockholder and a member of our Board of Directors, owns, in combination with the holdings of entities that he controls, approximately 55.4% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of April 12, 2013. As a result, and in addition to having de-facto control over all key elements of our business, Mr. Zoi can be viewed as having de-facto control over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including but not limited to: (i) electing and removing directors; (ii) amending or preventing amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; (iii) selling all or substantially all of our assets; and (iv) merging with another entity. This concentration of ownership could be disadvantageous to stockholders with interests that might vary from those of Mr. Zoi and adversely affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we currently incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses not incurred by private companies. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop, implement and maintain the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by federal statutes, Commission rules, other government regulations affecting public companies and/or stock exchange compliance requirements. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop, implement and maintain appropriate internal controls, processes and reporting procedures, which will increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Mobile Commerce and Payment Processing Business: Failure to successfully continue developing and expand our payment processing business may harm our revenue and business prospects. We very recently launched our mobile payment processing operations in Russia during the third quarter of 2012 through our Russian subsidiary TOT Money. Certain of TOT Money’s competitors have been in business longer than TOT Money and have significantly greater financial and other resources than TOT Money. In addition, TOT Money currently is using the payment processing systems of RM Invest, which is another payment processing business operating in Russia, and TOT Money has not yet built or acquired its own payment processing system (for additional information, see “Business Description— Mobile commerce and payment processing for electronic commerce (TOT Money)” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report). In order to successfully increase our business in the payment processing market in Russia and expand our payment processing business into other emerging markets, we must convince mobile phone carriers and content providers to use TOT Money’s services over competitive platforms that may already be in use. Many potential clients may worry about potential disadvantages associated with switching payment processing vendors, such as a loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. Failure to successfully continue developing TOT Money’s payment processing operations, maintain TOT Money’s existing contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers and enter into additional contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers to use TOT Money’s services may harm our revenue and business prospects. 19 Our future growth depends, in part, upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion into new markets, the emergence of additional markets for payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing payment processing markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues. Furthermore, in response to market developments, we may expand into new geographical markets and foreign countries in which we do not currently have any operating experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand in such markets due to our lack of experience and the multitude of risks associated with global operations or lack of appropriate regulatory approvals. We may not recoup our advances to aggregators. Our advances to aggregators are unsecured and we do not have financial statements or bank references to complete a full credit review of each aggregator, which increases our risk of not recouping such advances. At December 31, 2012, our outstanding advances to aggregators were $4.8 million net of a $550,000 reserve for bad debts. Aggregators are businesses that contract for content from hundreds or thousands of content providers and provide aggregated processing volume to TOT Money. Our advances to aggregators are unsecured and, while we have a history of transaction volume with most of our aggregators, we do not obtain financial statements or bank references to complete a full credit review of each aggregator. In addition, we transact business with new aggregators from time to time with whom we do not have a history of transaction volume. Financial problems with a particular aggregator could result in our not recouping advances that we have made to that aggregator. Furthermore, if we discontinue our business with a particular aggregator and the aggregator does not provide sufficient transaction volume to repay advances made to that aggregator, we have increased risk of not recouping the advances made to that aggregator. For these and/or other reasons, we may not recoup our advances made to aggregators. If we do not recoup all of our advances to aggregators, it will result in our incurring losses. Our current payment processing business is dependent upon a third party’s payment processing systems. If we no longer have use of those systems at a time when we have not arranged to immediately begin using an alternate system without disruption, our payment processing revenues could be materially adversely affected. Our payment processing subsidiary, TOT Money, is currently using on a trial basis for no consideration the payment processing systems of RM Invest, which is another payment processing business operating in Russia (for additional information, see “Business Description—Mobile commerce and payment processing for electronic commerce (TOT Money)” in Part I, Item 1 of this Report). RM Invest has agreed to allow TOT Money the right to use RM Invest’s systems indefinitely for as long as needed for evaluation purposes in determining whether TOT Money may have an interest in purchasing RM Invest’s systems. TOT Money is concurrently seeking a way to buy, license or build its own mobile payment processing system. Our agreement with RM Invest allowing us to use its systems is an oral arrangement, and there is risk that RM Invest could at any time terminate our use of its systems. If that were to occur at a time when we have not arranged to immediately begin using an alternate system without disruption, our payment processing revenues could be materially adversely affected (and it could result in the temporary suspension or even permanent end to our payment processing operations). Furthermore, if we change to using a different payment processing system (whether purchased, licensed or developed in-house), we may experience service disruptions during the period of transition to the new systems, which would adversely affect our payment processing revenues. 20 Our products and services could become less competitive or obsolete if we fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology. The markets for our products and services are characterized by technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Advances in technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and services and delivery formats and any such change in preferences may be rapid. Clients may choose to move or develop equivalent services in-house. If we fail to enhance our current products and services and develop new products and services in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer preferences, our business could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We could experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services and product and service enhancements, due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data or adapting to particular operating environments. Software errors or other defect errors in our products and services could affect the ability of our products and services to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of our products or services and could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and could damage our reputation. We process, store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, credit or debit card numbers and bank account numbers, and we may have liability if we fail to protect this data in accordance with applicable laws and our client’s specifications. The loss of data could result in significant fines and sanctions by our clients or governmental bodies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the Internet and could infiltrate our systems, which might disrupt our services and make them unavailable. In addition, a significant cybersecurity breach could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of clients. We have been in the past and could be in the future, subject to breaches of security by hackers. It is possible that our encryption of data and other protective measures may not prevent unauthorized access. Although we have not to date incurred material losses or liabilities as a result of those breaches, a future breach of our system may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment of fines and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit or debit card or bank account information or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients from using electronic payments generally and our services specifically, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits and/or result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under applicable laws or by our clients. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our clients and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and consumer purchasing habits. A deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets where we operate, or increases in interest rates in such markets, may adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and negatively affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Risks Related to Our Website Businesses (Entertainment and Culture Internet Destinations): We rely on traffic to our Internet websites from search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. If our websites fail to rank prominently in unpaid search results, traffic to our websites could decline (or may not increase to the extent desired), which could adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract users of our websites through unpaid Internet search results on search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. The number of users we attract to our websites from search engines is due in large part to how and where our websites rank in unpaid search results. These rankings can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our direct control, and they may change frequently. For example, a search engine may change its ranking algorithms, methodologies or design layouts. As a result, links to our websites may not be prominent enough to drive traffic to such websites, and we may not know how to, or otherwise be in a position to, influence the results. In some instances, search engine companies may change these rankings in order to promote their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites (or failure to increase the number of users directed to such websites) could adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. If we fail to generate and maintain sufficient high quality content on our websites, it may negatively affect the amount of traffic to our websites and, as a result, adversely affect our revenue and business prospects. Our success depends in part on our ability to provide consumers with high quality content on our websites. However, we may not be able to provide users the information they seek if the information on our websites is not up-to-date. If we are unable to provide consumers with the information they seek, or if they can find equivalent content on other websites or publications, they may stop or reduce their use of our websites or we may not be able to increase their use of our websites. If our user traffic declines, we may have more difficulty attracting third parties to advertise on such websites, which would negatively affect our revenue and business prospects. If we fail to increase the number of advertisers on our websites, our revenue and business prospects will be harmed. Our business plan contemplates increasing our revenue from third-party businesses advertising on our websites. As a result, our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our base of viewers and advertisers on our websites. To do so, we must convince prospective advertisers of the benefits of our product and services offerings, including those who may not be familiar with our products or services. We must also convince existing and prospective advertisers alike that our advertising products and services will benefit them. Many of these businesses may be more accustomed to using more traditional methods of advertising, such as newspapers, magazines or print yellow pages directories. Failure to maintain and expand our base of advertisers on our websites could harm our revenue and business prospects. We may experience attrition in our advertisers in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors, lower priced competitors, perceptions that our advertising solutions are unnecessary or ineffective, declining advertising budgets, closures and bankruptcies. If our advertisers increase their rates of non-renewal or if we experience significant advertiser attrition or contract breach, or if we are unable to attract new advertisers in numbers greater than the number of advertisers that we lose, our client base will decrease and our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. We expect to face increased competition in the market for attracting advertisers to our websites. The market for attracting advertisers on Internet websites is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. With the ongoing emergence of new technologies and market entrants, competition is likely to intensify in the future. Our competitors include, among others, offline media companies and service providers; newspaper, television, and other media companies; Internet search engines, such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing; and various other online service providers. Our competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, larger existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Our competitors may use these advantages to offer products or services similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products or services to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. In particular, major Internet companies, such as Amazon, Google, Facebook, Yahoo! and Microsoft may be more successful than us in developing and marketing online advertising offerings, and many of our advertisers and potential advertisers may choose to purchase online advertising services from these or other competitors and may reduce their purchases of our products and services. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships with and access to larger client bases. As the market for online advertising increases, new competitors, business models and solutions are likely to emerge. For all of these reasons, we may be unable to grow or maintain the number of businesses that use our advertising solutions, in which case our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. 22 The expansion of our owned and operated websites into new areas of consumer interest, products, services and technologies subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. An important element of our business strategy is to grow our network of owned and operated websites to cover new areas of consumer interest, expand into new business lines and develop additional services, products and technologies. In directing our focus into new areas, we face numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, long development cycles, new competitors and the requirement to develop new strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that its strategy will result in increased net revenues or any profits. Furthermore, growth into new areas may require changes to our existing business model and cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure and exposure to new regulatory and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in areas in which we have little or no experience. If we cannot generate revenue as a result of our expansion into new areas that are greater than the cost of such expansion, our operating results could be adversely affected. The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on advertising spending by local businesses, may adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising spent by businesses, which may be disproportionately affected by economic downturns. To the extent that the current economic slowdown continues, or worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential advertising clients may no longer consider investment in our advertising solutions a necessity, or may elect to reduce advertising budgets. Historically, economic downturns have generally resulted in reductions in advertising spending. In particular, web-based advertising solutions may be viewed by some of our existing and potential advertising clients as a lower priority and could cause advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, terminate their use of our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us. In addition, economic conditions may adversely impact levels of consumer spending, which could adversely impact the numbers of consumers visiting our websites. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. If consumer spending declines, businesses may be less likely to advertise on our websites, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Securities: The historic price of our common stock has been volatile and the future market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. Further, the limited trading volume in our common stock contributes significantly to the high volatility in the market price of our common stock. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Since trading began in the common stock of Net Element International, Inc. on October 3, 2012 (the trading day following the closing of our merger with Net Element), and through March 31, 2013, the per-share market price for our common stock has ranged from $1.90 to $12.25. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and through October 2, 2012 (the date of the closing of our merger with Net Element), the per-share market price for Cazador’s ordinary shares ranged from $9.16 to $11.00. Any future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to sell shares when they want and at prices they find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the trading volume in our common stock is limited, which contributes significantly to that volatility, and we cannot assure you that a larger or more liquid market will ever be developed or maintained. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for holders of our common stock to sell shares when they want and at prices they find attractive. 23 Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The following factors, among others, may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock: ·the fact that our payment processing business first launched operations and began generating revenue during the third quarter of 2012; ·our ability to maintain existing, and secure additional, contracts with mobile phone carriers and content providers to use our payment processing services; ·our ability to attract new advertisers and retain existing advertisers; ·the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence of our websites; ·the effects of increased competition on our business; ·our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and enter new markets; ·the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending and the level of advertising spending by businesses; ·our ability to protect our intellectual property; ·our ability to maintain and increase traffic to our websites; ·our ability to keep pace with changes in technology; ·the success of our sales and marketing efforts; ·costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and related judgments or settlements; ·changes in government licensing and regulation affecting our business; ·interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; ·the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; ·our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers; ·the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ·our ability to successfully manage and integrate any acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies; ·the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; ·changes in consumer behavior; ·our ability to increase the effectiveness of our internal controls; and ·changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We may sell equity securities in the future, which would cause dilution. We may sell equity securities in the future to obtain funds for general corporate, working capital, acquisitions or other purposes. We may sell these securities at a discount to the market price. Any future sales of equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders, possibly reducing the value of their investment. 24 We may not be able to continue to meet the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected, and the liquidity of our stock reduced and our ability to obtain financing could be impaired. We are currently in compliance with all of the listing standards for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, but we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. Any delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, reduce the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our stockholders. In addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. For these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 