D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business depends heavily on the market recognition and reputation of our dangdang.com brand, and any harm to our brand or failure to maintain and enhance our brand recognition may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the market recognition and reputation of our dangdang.com brand have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of our brand are critical to our success and ability to compete. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, are important to maintaining and enhancing our brand and may negatively impact our brand and reputation if not properly managed, such as: • our ability to maintain a convenient and reliable user experience as consumer preferences evolve and as we expand into new product categories and new business lines; • our ability to increase brand awareness among existing and potential customers through various means of marketing and promotional activities; • the efficiency, reliability and service quality of our courier service providers; • our ability to effectively control the product and service quality of third-party merchants and to monitor service performance of third parties as we continue to develop our marketplace program; and • any negative media publicity about e-commerce or security or product quality problems of other e-commerce websites in China. In 2011, we attracted negative publicity due to our cancellation of orders for some books and general merchandise products, which were posted for sale on our website at prices substantially below costs due to clerical errors. A number of customers have filed or threaten to file lawsuits related to the cancellation of these orders in Chinese courts. While the overall amount in dispute is relatively small, to the extent that these lawsuits attract negative media attention, our reputation will be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, further enhance our brand recognition and increase positive awareness of our website, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend heavily on the continued success of our core business of selling books and other media products online, and any event that adversely affects our sales of books and other media products could harm our business and results of operations. From our inception, we have primarily focused on the sale of books online and historically a majority of our total net revenues have been derived from selling books and other media products online, which accounted for 81.7%, 67.9% and 62.6% of our total net revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We expect that sales of books and other media products will continue to grow and comprise a majority of our total net revenues in the near future. While we have increased the marketing of various general merchandise products and will continue to expand our product offerings to gradually diversify our revenue sources, sales of these new categories of products may not increase to a level that would reduce our dependence on books and other media products. In addition, customers who purchase books and other media products on our website also constitute a majority of customers who purchase general merchandise products. If we cannot successfully attract or retain our book and other media product customers, the number of our customers for, and sales of, general merchandise products may decline. Furthermore, the development and increasing popularity of electronic books and digital content, which have already achieved success in the U.S. and other countries, may negatively impact our book sales online. Our sales of books and other media products may also be materially and negatively affected by sales of pirated books or other media products, which is a continuing problem in China. Any event that results in a reduction in our sales of books and other media products could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve profitability, we may continue to experience losses in the future. We incurred net losses in all periods prior to 2009 and in 2011 and 2012. We cannot assure you that we can improve profitability or avoid net losses in the future. Although we experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, such growth rates may not be sustainable and may decrease in the future. In addition, our ability to be profitable depends on the revenues that we can generate from our businesses, which are affected by factors out of our control, such as the level of price competition in the market, and our ability to control our costs and operating expenses, which we expect will increase as we expand our business. We incurred in the past and expect to continue to incur in future periods share-based compensation expenses, which will negatively impact our operating results. If competition remains intense and we fail to increase revenues at the rate we anticipate or if our costs and operating expenses increase without a commensurate increase in our revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. If we are unable to manage our growth or execute our strategies effectively, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our relationships with customers, suppliers, third-party service providers and third-party merchants. Our strategies also include broadening our product offerings, including general merchandise product offerings in particular, which will require us to introduce new product categories and work with different groups of suppliers and address the needs of different kinds of consumers. We launched an e-book platform to further enhance our customers’ shopping experience in December 2011, and currently offer approximately 90,000 book titles through the e-book platform. Given our relative unfamiliarity with many of these new product offerings, we may incur significant costs in trying to expand our offerings into these new product categories or fail to successfully execute the roll-out of these new product offerings. All of these endeavors involve risks, and will require substantial management effort and significant additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth or execute our strategies effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success depends on our ability to identify and respond to constantly changing consumer preferences. The e-commerce and retail industries are subject to changing consumer preferences. Consequently, we must stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and consumer trends and anticipate trends that will appeal to existing and potential customers. If our customers cannot find their desired products on our website, they may stop purchasing products on our website, stop visiting our website or visit less often. If we do not anticipate, identify and respond effectively to consumer preferences or changes in consumer trends at an early stage, we may not be able to generate the desired level of sales. Such circumstances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose market share and customers. The online retail environment for our products is intensely competitive. Our current or potential competitors include: (1) other B2C e-commerce companies; (2) physical retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers of our products, many of which possess significant brand recognition, sales volume and customer bases, and some of which currently sell, or in the future may sell, products or services through the internet; and (3) a number of indirect competitors, including internet portals and internet search engines that are involved in e-commerce, either directly or in collaboration with other retailers. We may also in the future experience competition from the increasing popularity of electronic books and digital content, which have already impacted the book market in the U.S. and other countries. 6 Table of Contents We face a variety of competitive challenges including: sourcing products efficiently; pricing our products competitively; maintaining the quality of the products sold on our website; anticipating and quickly responding to changing customer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition; providing quality services; ensuring the timely delivery of our products; and conducting strong and effective marketing activities. As we further develop our dangdang.com marketplace program, we will face increasing challenges to compete for and retain high quality third-party merchants. If we cannot properly address these challenges, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than us, including having their own delivery systems. In addition, other online retailers may be acquired by, receive investment from or enter into strategic relationships with, well-established and well-financed companies or investors which would help enhance their competitive positions. Certain of our competitors may be able to secure merchandise from suppliers on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and system development than us. Increased competition may reduce our operating margins, market share and brand recognition, or force us to incur losses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our further expansion in the general merchandise business and third-party marketplace business may lower our profit margins. Since our inception, we have focused on selling books online. In recent years, we have gradually expanded the product offerings on our website to include other media products and selected general merchandise categories. In 2009, we launched the dangdang.com marketplace program to allow third-party merchants to sell certain general merchandise products alongside our products. These new businesses involve risks and challenges different from those of book retailing. For example, compared with book suppliers, general merchandise suppliers usually give us shorter periods of payment credit, which requires us to upgrade our internal finance and accounting functions to adjust to such new payment cycles. In addition, general merchandise products typically come in different sizes and shapes and therefore require more flexible warehouse storage spaces and fulfillment capacity as compared to books. Furthermore, because of the variety of quality standards, shapes, sizes, colors and styles of many general merchandise products, such as electronics and apparel, it is more difficult for us to inspect and control the quality and ensure the proper handling of the general merchandise products sold on our website. We anticipate that we may experience a higher rate of return for, or complaints regarding, such products. The sale of general merchandise products may also expose us to risks related to product defects or other quality problems, which may result in costly product liability claims against us and harm to our brand and reputation. Pursuant to the relevant PRC laws and regulations, customers who have purchased general merchandise products at our website can seek indemnification from us for any damages caused by defective products that we sell. In addition, the relevant government authorities can initiate investigation, confiscate any products with quality problems or any illegal income generated from selling such products, impose penalties, or, in serious cases, suspend licenses of the parties involved. General merchandise products generally have lower profit margins than books and other media products and we may need to price aggressively to gain market share or remain competitive in this new business, which may further reduce our profit margins. We also face challenges to address changes in customer demands and preferences and the associated inventory risks. Uncertainties regarding the growth and sustained profitability of B2C e-commerce in China could adversely affect our net revenues and business prospects. Substantially all of our net revenues are based on a B2C e-commerce business model. While B2C e-commerce has existed in China since the 1990s, only recently have certain companies become profitable and thus the long term viability and prospects of various B2C e-commerce business models, and e-commerce generally, in China remain relatively untested. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the development of e-commerce in China, which may be beyond our control. These factors include: • the growth of personal computer, smartphone, internet and broadband usage and penetration in China, and the rate of any such growth; 7 Table of Contents • the trust and confidence level of consumers in online shopping in China, as well as changes in customer demographics and consumers’ tastes and preferences; • the selection, price and popularity of products that we and our competitors offer on websites; • whether alternative retail channels or business models that better address the needs of consumers emerge in China; • the development of fulfillment, payment and other ancillary services associated with online purchases; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending. A decline in the popularity of shopping on the internet in general, or any failure by us to adapt our website and improve the online shopping experience of our customers in response to trends and consumer requirements, will adversely affect our net revenues and business prospects. Our dangdang.com marketplace is subject to risks associated with third-party merchants. We launched our dangdang.com marketplace program in 2009. As of December 31, 2012, there were more than 3,000 third-party merchants who offered and sold products through our marketplace. We do not have as much control over the storage and delivery of products sold on our marketplace as we do over the products that we sell directly ourselves. Some of our third-party merchants use their own storage and delivery systems to store their products and deliver to our customers, which makes it more difficult for us to ensure that our customers get the same high quality service for all products sold on our website. If any third-party merchant does not control the quality of the products that it sells on our website, or if it fails to deliver the products on time or at all or delivers products that are of inferior quality or if it sells counterfeit or unlicensed products on our website, and we fail to discover or prevent the misbehavior, the reputation of our marketplace and our dangdang.com brand may be materially and adversely affected and we could face claims that we should be held liable for any losses incurred by our customers. Moreover, some products sold on our marketplace may compete with the products we sell directly, which may lead to a decrease in the sales of our own products. In addition, the supplier relationships, customer acquisition dynamics and working capital requirements for our marketplace may not be the same as those for our self-procurement operations, which may complicate the management of our business. In order for our marketplace to be successful, we must continue to identify and attract third-party merchants, and we may not be successful in this regard. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of consumer confidence and spending in China. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that impact consumer spending. The retail industry, in particular, is very sensitive to broad economic changes, and retail purchases tend to decline during recessionary periods. Substantially all of our net revenues are derived from retail sales in China. Many factors outside of our control, including interest rates, volatility of the world’s stock markets, inflation and deflation, tax rates and other government policies, and unemployment rates can adversely affect consumer confidence and spending. The domestic and international political environments, including military conflicts and political turmoil or social instability, may also adversely affect consumer confidence and reduce spending, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. The proper functioning of our website is essential to our business and any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of our website will materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website, our transaction-processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our success and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer service levels. Our net revenues depend on the number of visitors who shop on our website and the volume of orders we fulfill. Any system interruptions caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems that result in the unavailability or slowdown of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of products sold and the attractiveness of product offerings at our website. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. We may also experience interruptions caused by reasons beyond our control. There can be no assurance that such unexpected interruptions will not happen again, and future occurrences could damage our reputation and result in a material decrease in our revenues. 8 Table of Contents We use internally developed systems for our website and substantially all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, cash, debit card and credit card processing, purchasing, inventory management and shipping. We periodically upgrade and expand our systems, and in the future, we intend to further upgrade and expand our systems and to integrate newly developed or purchased software with our existing systems to support increased transaction volume. Any inability to add additional software and hardware or to develop and upgrade our existing technology, transaction-processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic on our website or increased sales volume through our transaction-processing systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response time, degradation in levels of customer service and impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage our relationships with our suppliers, our business and prospects may suffer. We source our products from domestic Chinese publishers, manufacturers and distributors. We have strong relationships with a network of suppliers across China. For books and other media products, we have fostered long-term relationships with numerous suppliers, including some strategically important suppliers who, in some cases, give us exclusive rights to sell online certain popular or hard-to-find books and other media products within certain prescribed periods. As compared to our book suppliers, our relationships with general merchandise suppliers are relatively recent and still developing, and maintaining strong relationships with these suppliers is also important to the growth of our business. Maintaining good relationships with suppliers that compete with each other can be difficult. For example, suppliers of similar products may compete for desirable virtual shelf space or priority exposure of their products on our website to our customer base. There can be no assurance that our current suppliers will continue to sell merchandise to us on terms acceptable to us, or that we will be able to establish new or extend current supplier relationships to ensure a steady supply of merchandise in a timely and cost-efficient manner. If we are unable to develop and maintain good relationships with suppliers, it may inhibit our ability to offer products demanded by our customers, or to offer them in sufficient quantities and at prices acceptable to them. In addition, if our suppliers cease to provide us with favorable pricing or payment terms or return policies, our working capital requirements may increase and our operations may be materially and adversely affected. Any breakdown in our supplier relationships, or a failure to timely resolve disputes with or complaints from our suppliers, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations. If we fail to successfully adopt new technologies or adapt our website and systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our business, prospects and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our website. The internet and the online retail industry are characterized by rapid technological evolution, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technologies and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, develop, acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of website and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt our website, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Any interruption in the operation of our data centers or logistics centers for an extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. Our ability to process and fulfill orders accurately and provide high-quality customer service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our data centers and logistics centers. Our data centers and logistics centers may be vulnerable to damage caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake, human error and other events. In addition, we do not currently have additional back-up systems or a formal disaster recovery plan and do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant challenge to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Currently, all product orders and, in some cases, payments for products we offer, are made through our website. In addition, some online payments for our products are settled through third-party online payment services. In such transactions, maintaining complete security for the transmission of confidential information on our website, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, is essential to maintain consumer confidence. We have limited influence over the security measures of third-party online payment service providers. In addition, we hold certain private information about our customers, such as their names, addresses, phone numbers and browsing and purchasing records. We may not be able to prevent third parties, such as hackers or criminal organizations, from stealing information provided by our customers to us through our website. In addition, our third-party merchants and delivery service providers may violate their confidentiality obligations and disclose information about our customers. Any compromise of our security or third-party service providers’ security could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, additional capital and other resources may be required to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. The methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activity are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving. Even if we are successful in adapting to and preventing new security breaches, any perception by the public that online commerce and transactions, or the privacy of user information, are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attack could inhibit the growth of e-commerce and other online services generally, which in turn may reduce the number of orders we receive. We depend on numerous third-party delivery service providers to deliver our products, and their failure to provide high-quality delivery services to our customers may negatively impact the shopping experience of our customers, damage our market reputation and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently use a network of regional third-party inter-city transportation companies and local third-party courier companies to deliver parcels to our customers. For customers in remote areas not covered by our delivery network, we use China’s postal services to deliver our products. Interacting with and coordinating the activities of so many delivery companies is complicated. Interruptions to or failures in these third parties’ shipping services could prevent the timely or successful delivery of our products. These interruptions may be due to unforeseen events that are beyond our control or the control of these third-party delivery companies, such as inclement weather, natural disasters or labor unrest. In addition, in response to competition or for promotional purposes, we may from time to time promise even shorter delivery time to our customers, which will put increased pressure on our delivery network. If our products are not delivered on time or are delivered in a damaged state, customers may refuse to accept our products and have less confidence in our services. Thus, we may lose customers, and our financial condition and market reputation could suffer. In addition, as local courier companies tend to be small companies with limited capital resources, they may be more likely to go bankrupt, close down or encounter financial difficulties, in which case we may not be able to retrieve our products in their possession, arrange for delivery of those products by an alternative carrier, receive the payments the courier companies collect for us, or hold them accountable for the losses they cause us. Although the courier companies are generally required to provide cash deposits or payment guarantees to us before we let them provide services for us, such security may not be sufficient to cover the risks to which we are exposed. In addition, if the courier companies cease to provide cash deposits to us or significantly reduce the amounts of such deposits, our working capital requirements may increase and our operating cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. We also expect gradual consolidation in the logistics industry, and we may experience disruption to our delivery network in areas covered by the companies undergoing acquisitions or integration, or we may experience difficulty in negotiating favorable terms with such companies. The occurrence of any of these problems, alone or together, could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our legal right to lease certain properties could be challenged by property owners or other third parties, which may cause interruptions to our business operations. We lease all of the premises used for our offices, warehouses and data centers, except that we own a warehouse in Tianjin, which is currently under construction. A majority of our lessors have not been able to provide the relevant housing ownership certificates for the properties leased by us. In particular, eight of our warehouses are located on collectively-owned land or military land, and the lessors have not been able to provide the relevant title certificates and approvals in relation to the leases, including the approvals from the military authorities or collective members. None of our leases of the properties has been filed for registration with the relevant government authorities, as required under PRC law. In addition, four of our leased premises were mortgaged by the owners before we entered into lease agreements with them. As of the date of this annual report, we are not aware of any actions, claims or investigations being contemplated by the competent government authorities with respect to the defects in our leased real properties or any challenges by third parties to our use of these properties. However, if third parties who purport to be property owners or beneficiaries of the mortgaged properties challenge our right to lease these properties, we may not be able to protect our leasehold interest and may be ordered to vacate the affected premises, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. Failure to renew our current leases or locate desirable alternatives for our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our offices, warehouses and data centers are presently located on leased premises except for a warehouse in Tianjin that is currently under construction. At the end of each lease term, we may not be able to negotiate an extension of the lease and may therefore be forced to move to a different location, or the rent we pay may increase significantly. This could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our profitability. A number of our leases will expire in the near future and are subject to renewal at market prices, which could result in a substantial increase in the rent at the time of renewal. We compete with other businesses for premises at certain locations or of desirable sizes and some landlords may have entered into long-term leases with our competitors for such premises. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases at desirable locations or renew our existing leases on acceptable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We plan to expand our logistics center and distribution network. If we are not able to manage such expansion successfully, our growth potential, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. We believe our strategically located central and regional logistics centers and our extensive distribution network are essential to our success. We opened two new warehouses in Tianjin and expanded some other warehouses in 2012. We intend to continue expanding our logistics centers and distribution network to accommodate more customer orders, provide better coverage of our target markets, and support our expansion into general merchandise products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to lease suitable facilities at commercially acceptable terms in accordance with our expansion plan. In addition, the expansion of our logistics centers and distribution network will put pressure on our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. If we are unable to secure new facilities or effectively manage our expanded logistics operations and control increasing costs, our growth potential, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may incur liability for counterfeit products, products sold at our website or content provided on our website that infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We source our products from over 3,700 suppliers across China. In connection with our dangdang.com marketplace program, third-party merchants are separately responsible for sourcing the products they sell on our website. Although we have adopted measures to verify the authenticity of products sold on our website and minimize potential infringement of third-party intellectual property rights in the course of sourcing and selling products, we may not always be successful. In the event that counterfeit or infringing products are sold on our website, we could face claims that we should be held liable for selling counterfeit products or infringing on others’ intellectual property rights. We have in the past received many intellectual property infringement claims, none of which have had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Irrespective of the validity of such claims, we could incur significant costs and efforts in either defending against or settling such claims. If there is a successful claim against us, we might be required to pay substantial damages or refrain from further sale of the relevant products. Moreover, regardless of whether we successfully defend against such claims, our reputation could be severely damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Under our agreements with suppliers and third-party merchants, we require our suppliers or third-party merchants to indemnify us for any losses we suffer or any costs that we incur due to any products we source from such suppliers or any products sold by third-party merchants. However, we may not be able to successfully enforce our contractual rights and may need to initiate costly and lengthy legal proceedings in China to protect our rights. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” Our business depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers named in this annual report. If one or more of our executive officers were unable or unwilling to continue their employment with us, we might not be able to replace them easily, in a timely manner, or at all, and our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In 2011 and 2012, some of our executive officers left our company for personal reasons. Competition for experienced management personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. We may also incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified replacements. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and other personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-compete provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you that we would be able to enforce these non-compete provisions in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly management, technical and marketing personnel with expertise in the e-commerce industry. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified staff or other highly skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of February 28, 2013, the most recent practicable date, our co-founders and directors, Mr. Guoqing Li and Ms. Peggy Yu Yu, who are husband and wife, together beneficially own an aggregate of 34.6% of our outstanding shares, representing 82.9% of the total voting power of our outstanding common shares. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—E. Share Ownership.” As a result, Mr. Li and Ms. Yu have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They may take actions that are not in the best interest of us or our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including those who purchase ADSs in our initial public offering. For more information regarding our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We regard our trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, suppliers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. As of February 28, 2013, we had registered 79 domain names, including dangdang.com, dangdang.com.cn and dangdang.cn , and 47 trademarks and service marks and had 37 trademark applications, 2 patents and 2 patent applications pending in China. Our trademarks and service marks may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Confidentiality agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. It is often difficult to create and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws, or to obtain enforcement of a court judgment or an arbitration award delivered in another jurisdiction, and accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or enforce agreements in China. Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technologies. We incur significant costs on a variety of marketing efforts designed to increase sales of our products and some marketing campaigns and methods may turn out to be ineffective. We rely on a variety of different marketing efforts tailored to our targeted customers to increase sales of our products. Our marketing activities, which often involve significant costs, may not be well received by customers and may not result in the levels of product sales that we anticipate. Marketing approaches and tools in the consumer products market in China are evolving. This further requires us to enhance our marketing approaches and experiment with new marketing methods to keep pace with industry developments and customer preferences. Failure to refine our existing marketing approaches or to introduce new effective marketing approaches in a cost-effective manner could reduce our market share, cause our net revenues to decline and negatively impact our profitability. We may suffer losses if we are unable to efficiently manage our inventory risks, particularly when expanding into the general merchandise business. We must anticipate the popularity of products and purchase them before selling them to our customers. Under some of our current supply agreements, we enjoy flexible policies for returning the unsold items to our suppliers. In order to secure more favorable business terms, we have entered into and plan to continue to enter into purchase arrangements with our suppliers with more restrictive return policies. For example, some of our contracts with suppliers contain restrictions on our ability to return products, such as caps on the amount of products that can be returned, and we may lose preferential pricing terms for such products if we exceed these caps, which could materially affect our profit margins. In addition, under this business model, we will also incur increased inventory risks if we are unable to return unsold products to our suppliers. Return policies in our general merchandise supply agreements may have more restrictive terms. If we are unable to correctly predict demand for the products that we are committed to purchase, we will be responsible for covering the cost of the products that we are unable to sell, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our results of operations are subject to quarterly fluctuations due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our ADSs. We experience seasonality in our business, reflecting a combination of seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality patterns. We generally experience less user traffic and acquire fewer customers during national holidays in China, in particular during the first quarter of each year due to the slow-down of businesses during the Chinese New Year holiday season that effectively lasts more than half a month. Furthermore, sales in the traditional retail industry are significantly higher in the fourth quarter of each calendar year than in the preceding three quarters. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Future strategic alliances or acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. We may in the future enter into strategic alliances with various third parties. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the counter-party, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may have little ability to control or monitor their actions. To the extent strategic third parties suffer negative publicity or harm to their reputation from events relating to their business, we may also suffer negative publicity or harm to our reputation by virtue of our association with such third parties. In addition, although we have no current acquisition plans, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional assets, products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own would require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect. In addition, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. In addition to possible shareholders’ approval, we may also have to obtain approvals and licenses from the relevant government authorities in the PRC for the acquisitions and to comply with any applicable PRC laws and regulations, which could result in increased costs and delay. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2012. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 14 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, time deposits and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements and capital expenditures in the coming year. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and the tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Demand for books and general merchandise electronic sold on our website ultimately depends on employment and consumer spending, which have been less quick to respond to fiscal and monetary stimulus than have, for example, asset prices. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, insurance companies in China currently offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any product liability insurance or business interruption insurance. As we continue to expand our general merchandise product offerings, we may be increasingly exposed to product liability claims related to product defects in the design or manufacture of such general merchandise. Any product liability claims or business disruption, natural disaster could result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to online commerce and the distribution of internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our website. Foreign ownership of internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide internet content distribution services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% of the equity interests in any entity conducting an internet content distribution business. We are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiary, Beijing Dangdang Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Dangdang Information, is considered a foreign-invested enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into between our PRC subsidiary, Dangdang Information, our affiliated PRC entity, Beijing Dangdang Kewen E-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Dangdang Kewen, and Dangdang Kewen’s shareholders. Our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary hold the licenses that are essential to the operation of our business. For a detailed description of these licenses and permits, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation.” Dangdang Kewen is a PRC limited liability company 50% owned by Mr. Guoqing Li and 50% owned by Ms. Peggy Yu Yu, husband and wife, both of whom are major shareholders, co-founders and directors of our company, and PRC citizens. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over Dangdang Kewen and consolidate its operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” In 2010, 2011 and 2012, Dangdang Kewen and its subsidiary contributed in aggregate 18.7 %, 15.3% and 4.1%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In the opinion of Jun He Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, our current ownership structure and the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiary and our affiliated PRC entity are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations, and the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiary, our affiliated PRC entity and its shareholders, as described in this annual report, are valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms based on currently effective PRC laws and regulations, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. If our ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, our PRC subsidiaries, or our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary, shutting down our servers or blocking our website, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these penalties results in our inability to direct the activities of Dangdang Kewen that most significantly impact its economic performance, and/or our failure to receive the economic benefits from Dangdang Kewen, we may not be able to consolidate the entity in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 16 Table of Contents We rely on contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity and its shareholders for the operation of our business, which may not be as effective as direct ownership. Because of PRC restrictions on foreign ownership of internet-based businesses in China, we depend on contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity, Dangdang Kewen, in which we have no ownership interest, to engage in the online retailing business. These contractual arrangements are intended to provide us with effective control over this entity and allow us to obtain economic benefits from it. Although we believe that these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. For example, Dangdang Kewen and its shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our online retailing business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If we were the controlling shareholder of Dangdang Kewen with direct ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes to its board of directors, which in turn could implement changes at the management and operational level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Dangdang Kewen or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these agreements would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. In addition, since each of the two shareholders of Dangdang Kewen holds a 50% interest in it, any conflict between them as to Dangdang Kewen’s operations would result in a deadlock that may be detrimental to our business. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” In the event we are unable to enforce the contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of Dangdang Kewen, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of Dangdang Kewen into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The shareholders of our affiliated PRC entity have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Guoqing Li and Ms. Peggy Yu Yu are husband and wife, and co-founders and directors of our company. They are also the shareholders of our affiliated PRC entity, Dangdang Kewen, each holding 50% in such entity. Thus, conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and their interests as the controlling shareholders of our affiliated PRC entity may arise. We cannot assure you that they will act entirely in our interests when conflicts of interest arise or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Li and Ms. Yu could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us, resulting in our loss of corporate opportunities. If we are unable to resolve any such conflicts, or if we suffer significant delays or other obstacles as a result of such conflicts, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” Our ability to enforce the equity pledge agreements between us and the shareholders of affiliated PRC entity may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Pursuant to the equity pledge agreement, the shareholders of Dangdang Kewen, our affiliated PRC entity, pledge their equity interest in Dangdang Kewen to Dangdang Information, our wholly owned subsidiary, to secure their and Dangdang Kewen’s performance of the obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. An equity pledge agreement becomes effective among the parties upon execution, but according to the PRC Property Rights Law, an equity pledge is not perfected as a security property right unless it is registered with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce. The equity pledges under the equity pledge agreement as amended in July 2010 have been registered with the local administration for industry and commerce, and we will register the equity pledge agreement recently amended in December 2012 with the local administration for industry and commerce after the local administration for industry and commerce completes its annual review of our business license. Prior to the completion of the registration, we may not be able to successfully enforce the equity pledges pursuant to the amended equity pledge agreement against any third parties who have acquired property right interests in good faith in the equity interests in our affiliated entity. 17 Table of Contents We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary that are important to the operation of our business if they go bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity, Dangdang Kewen, it holds certain assets that are important to the operation of our business. Some of these assets are held by Dangdang Kewen’s subsidiary, Wuxi Dangdang Kewen E-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Wuxi Dangdang Kewen. If our affiliated PRC entity or its subsidiary goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our affiliated PRC entity or its subsidiary undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with Dangdang Kewen may result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between us and our affiliated PRC entity, Dangdang Kewen, we are effectively subject to the 5% PRC business tax, or 6% value-added tax as a result of the pilot VAT reform program, on net revenues derived from our contractual arrangements with Dangdang Kewen. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between us and Dangdang Kewen were not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that Dangdang Kewen adjust its taxable income, if any, upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing Dangdang Kewen’s tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject Dangdang Kewen to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its related parties to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s length principles. As a result, our contractual arrangements with Dangdang Kewen may result in adverse tax consequences to us. If the PRC tax authorities decide to make transfer pricing adjustments on its net income, our consolidated net income may be adversely affected. If our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary fail to obtain and maintain the requisite assets, licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for internet-based businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The internet industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet industry. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation.” Our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary are required to obtain and maintain certain assets relevant to its business as well as applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide its current services. These assets and licenses are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary may be required to obtain additional licenses. If they fail to obtain or maintain any of the required, assets, licenses or approvals, their continued business operations in the internet industry may subject it to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net revenues, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of their operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our website. China has enacted laws and regulations governing internet access and the distribution of products, services, news, information, audio-video programs and other content through the internet. In the past, the PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the internet that it deems to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If any of our internet content were deemed by the PRC government to violate any content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our customers or users of our website or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our website in China. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal cases have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises as well as various Chinese laws and regulations generally applicable to companies in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Under PRC law, a company that sets up a branch to conduct business in a location outside its registered address must register with the local administration for industry and commerce. However, it is not clear whether a warehouse or a call center, which is typically for storage or customer service purpose without direct business operation, is required to be registered. Administrations for industry and commerce in different locations may have different practices. Our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Dangdang Information currently has 17 warehouses and one call center located outside of its registered address, none of which has been registered. If the relevant local administration for industry and commerce deems that any of our warehouses or call center is actually a branch and thus subject to the registration requirement, we may be subject to penalties for failing to register it. These penalties include fines and disgorgement of gains. Because of the discretionary nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to these penalties as a result of violation of the requirement, and these penalties may have a material adverse effect on our financial results for the relevant periods. Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets and almost all of our customers are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. 19 Table of Contents The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over the Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a PRC “resident enterprise,” which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law that became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. A circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation in April 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese enterprise groups and established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such PRC “resident enterprises” will be considered PRC-source income and subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when paid to non-PRC enterprise shareholders. This circular also subjects such PRC “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, the tax circular mentioned above specifies that certain PRC-invested overseas enterprises controlled by a Chinese enterprise or a Chinese enterprise group in the PRC will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in the PRC: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, the company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. However, it remains unclear how the PRC authorities will treat overseas enterprises controlled by PRC individuals, as in our case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman holding company is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, then our worldwide income could be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 25%. Although we have had net operating losses to date, if we expand our business overseas and generate significant revenues and profits outside China in the future, the imposition of 25% PRC tax on our worldwide income could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Furthermore, although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident to another PRC tax resident should qualify as “tax-exempt income” under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we cannot assure you that dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to our Cayman holding company will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax on dividends, and the PRC tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. 20 Table of Contents Finally, foreign ADS holders that are enterprises may be subject to PRC withholding tax on dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or Class A common shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether dividends received and gains realized by our foreign ADS holders that are enterprises will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. The heightened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our business operations, our acquisition or restructuring strategy or the value of your investment in us. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, in December 2009, effective with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise indirectly transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas non-public holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an “effective tax” rate of less than 12.5% or (ii) “does not impose income tax” on overseas income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, must report this Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority can make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In March 2011, the State Administration of Taxation released the SAT Public Notice (2011) No. 24 to clarify several issues related to Circular 698. According to this notice, the term “effective tax” refers to the effective tax on the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company; and the term “does not impose income tax” refers to the cases where the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company is not subject to income tax in the country or region where the overseas holding company is a resident. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have authority to request for information over a wide range of foreign entities that have no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or made any formal declaration as to the process and format for reporting an Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to previous investments by non-resident investors in our company, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our existing non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under SAT Circular 698, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investments in us. We may conduct acquisitions involving corporate structures, and historically our shares were transferred by certain then shareholders to our current shareholders. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing obligations on us or require us to provide assistance for the investigation of PRC tax authorities with respect thereto. Any PRC tax imposed on a transfer of our shares or any adjustment of such gains would cause us to incur additional costs and may have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. 21 Table of Contents PRC laws and regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. PRC laws and regulations, such as the M&A Rules promulgated by six PRC regulatory agencies in 2006, the Anti-Monopoly Law promulgated by the PRC National People’s Congress in 2007, the Circular on the Establishment of a National Security Review Mechanism for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by the General Office of the PRC State Council in 2011 and the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by the Ministry of Commerce in 2011, establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors and companies more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that various governmental authorities be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the relevant PRC laws and regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The inability of our PRC resident shareholders to complete their registrations with SAFE may limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, or otherwise expose us to liability and penalties under PRC law. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations in October 2005 that require PRC citizens or residents to register with SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving a roundtrip investment whereby the offshore entity acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests held by the PRC citizens or residents. In addition, such PRC citizens or residents must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes material events relating to increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, external guarantees, or other material events that do not involve roundtrip investments. Subsequent regulations, including the Notice of SAFE on Printing and Distributing the Rules for the Implementation of the Operating Procedure of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, effective July 1, 2011, further clarified that PRC subsidiaries of an offshore company governed by the SAFE regulations are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations in a timely manner by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents. We cannot assure you that our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents will make, obtain or update any applicable registration. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE branches. If our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents do not complete their registration with the local SAFE branches, our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability and penalties under PRC law for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Despite various interpretations issued by SAFE, some of the terms and provisions in the SAFE regulations remain unclear and implementation by central SAFE and local SAFE branches of the SAFE regulations has been inconsistent since its adoption in 2005. For example, shortly after its promulgation in 2005, many PRC resident shareholders of companies that appeared to fall within the scope of the regulations inquired with SAFE about the registration procedures, and based on the different circumstances in each case, different companies often received differing guidance on how and whether to register under the regulations. In 2006, our PRC resident shareholders voluntarily inquired about and attempted to comply with the relevant SAFE regulations. However, the local SAFE branch was not certain whether the registration requirements applied to our shareholders, inhibiting their ability to make their registration applications. During the process of preparing our initial public offering in 2010, we and our PRC resident shareholders, Ms. Peggy Yu Yu and Mr. Guoqing Li, consulted with relevant SAFE officials about how to comply with the SAFE registration requirements and have submitted the registration application to the competent local SAFE. Because of uncertainty over how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted and implemented, and how SAFE will apply them to us, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends, capital injection and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance in full with the SAFE regulations by our PRC resident shareholders. In addition, in some cases, we may have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident shareholders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE regulations, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to penalties or other legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, restrict our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, including the transfer of the proceeds from our initial public offering into our PRC subsidiaries, or limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. 22 Table of Contents In February 2012, SAFE issued regulations requiring PRC residents who are granted share options by an overseas publicly listed company to register with SAFE through a Chinese agent (including without limitation a Chinese subsidiary of the overseas publicly-listed company) and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted share options are subject to these regulations. We and our PRC share option holders are in the process of registering with SAFE. Failure of our PRC share option holders or us to complete their SAFE registrations may subject such PRC residents or us to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business. Our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entity are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and rely on, in part, dividends paid from our PRC subsidiaries. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiary to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the total amount set aside reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Since our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary were in an accumulated loss position in the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, no such reserve fund was established for these three years. Further, if our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entity incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. PRC regulations of loans to PRC entities and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the offshore proceeds to make loans or additional capital contributions to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary. We may transfer funds to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary or finance our wholly owned PRC subsidiary by means of shareholder loans or capital contributions. Any loans to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the difference between the registered capital and the approved investment amount of such subsidiary, and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital contributions we make to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital contributions to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary in a timely manner may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In addition, SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular 142 in August 2008, and a further SAFE Circular 45 in November 2011 in order to clarify the application of SAFE Circular 142. Under SAFE Circular 142 and Circular 45, registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC. In addition, foreign-invested companies may not change how they use such capital without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case use such capital to repay RMB loans if proceeds of such loans have not been utilized. Violations of Circular 142 or Circular 45 may result in severe penalties, including heavy fines. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular 59 in November 2010, which requires the local SAFE branch and banks to closely examine the authenticity of the settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings and the net proceeds be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Circular 142, Circular 45 and Circular 59 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering and any subsequent offerings or financings to our wholly owned PRC subsidiary and convert such proceeds into RMB, which may materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. 23 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods recently when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. As we may receive dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entity and its subsidiary, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. Should we enter into transactions denominated in U.S. dollars, any appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar will reduce the amount of Renminbi we receive in exchange for such U.S. dollars. Conversely, any depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar will have a negative effect should we need to exchange our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for dividend payments or for other business purposes. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of such hedges may be limited and we may not be able to hedge our exposure adequately, or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by any PRC exchange controls that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. 24 Table of Contents Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China. The SEC has brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China recently, alleging that they refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, the independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is one of the five accounting firms named in the SEC’s proceedings and we may be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies in China audited by these accounting firms. If the SEC prevails in the proceedings, our independent registered public accounting firm and other four accounting firms in China that were named in the proceedings may be barred from practicing before the SEC and hence unable to continue to be the auditors for China-based companies listed in the U.S. like ourselves. If none of the China-based auditors are able to continue to be auditors for China-based companies listed in the U.S., we will not be able to meet the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which may ultimately result in our deregistration by the SEC and delisting from NYSE. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of Chinese companies have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies, including ours, have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may continue to impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our net revenues, earnings and cash flows; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and product category expansions by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in market prices of our products; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; and • potential litigation or regulatory investigations. 25 Table of Contents Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. The ADSs sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and shares held by our existing shareholders may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company under U.S. tax law, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs. Depending upon the value of our assets based on the market value of our ADSs and Class A common shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on our current income and assets and the current and projected value of our ADSs and Class A common shares, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 2012. We cannot predict whether we might be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the value of our assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat Dangdang Kewen as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective control over the operation of Dangdang Kewen but also because we are entitled to substantially all of its economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate its results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of Dangdang Kewen for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and any subsequent taxable year. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC would substantially increase. In connection with filing an annual report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, we expect to disclose to our shareholders whether or not we expect to be a PFIC for the relevant year. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may be subject to reporting requirements and may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs or Class A common shares and on the receipt of distributions on our ADSs or Class A common shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A common shares, we would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A common shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisors concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding, and disposing of our ADSs or Class A common shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 26 Table of Contents Our dual-class common share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our common shares are divided into Class A common shares and Class B common shares. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. Each Class B common share is convertible into one Class A common share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A common shares are not convertible into Class B common shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B common shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B common shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A common shares. In addition, if at any time Ms. Peggy Yu Yu and Mr. Guoqing Li and their affiliates collectively own less than 5% of the total number of the issued and outstanding Class B common shares (taking into account all of the issued and outstanding preferred shares on an as-converted basis), each issued and outstanding Class B common share shall be automatically and immediately converted into one share of Class A common share, and we shall not issue any Class B common shares thereafter. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, as of February 28, 2013, Ms. Peggy Yu Yu and Mr. Guoqing Li collectively own approximately 82.8% of the voting power of our outstanding common shares and have considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated ownership limits your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A common shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2012 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the common law of England, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. 27 Table of Contents The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. U.S. shareholders may be able to originate actions against us in the Cayman Islands under Cayman Islands laws. However, we do not have any substantial assets other than certain corporate documents and records in the Cayman Islands and it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce a judgment obtained in a Cayman Islands court in China, where substantially all of our operations are conducted. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the China. In addition, a majority of our current directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your Class A common shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is seven calendar days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, we will give the depositary notice of any such meeting and details concerning the matters to be voted upon at least 30 days in advance of the meeting date and the depositary will send a notice to you about the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 28 Table of Contents The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our Class A common shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our Class A common shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on Class A common shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, Class A common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, Class A common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our Class A common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may experience dilution of your holdings due to inability to participate in rights offering or as a result of additional securities issued under our share-based compensation plans. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. In addition, we adopted a share-based compensation plan in 2004, or the 2004 plan, and another share incentive plan in 2010, or the 2010 plan. As of February 28, 2013, there were 19,411,905 options to purchase shares outstanding under the 2004 plan and the 2010 plan. The additional securities we may issue under the 2010 plan or other share-based compensation plans we may adopt in future will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 29 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 