Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risk and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are those that we currently believe may materially and adversely affect us, our future business or results of operations, or investments in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect us, our future business or results of operations, or investments in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The FX market has only recently become accessible to retail investors and, accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our performance. The FX market has only recently become accessible to retail investors. Prior to 1996, retail investors generally did not directly trade in the FX market, and we believe most current retail FX traders only recently viewed currency trading as a practical alternative investment class. Our FX trading operations were launched in 1999, at which time we began offering FX trading services domestically and internationally. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history in a relatively new international retail FX trading market upon which you can evaluate our prospects and future performance. Our prospects may be materially adversely affected by the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the operation of a new business in a rapidly evolving industry characterized by intense competition and evolving regulatory oversight and rules. Our revenue and profitability are influenced by trading volume and currency volatility, which are directly impacted by domestic and international market and economic conditions that are beyond our control. In the past few years, there has been significant disruption and volatility in the global financial markets and economic conditions, and many countries, including the United States, have been in an economic slowdown. Our revenue is influenced by the general level of trading activity in the FX market. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due primarily to movements and trends in the world’s currency markets and to fluctuations in trading levels. We have generally experienced greater trading volume and higher revenue in periods of volatile currency markets. In the event we experience lower levels of currency volatility, our revenue and profitability will likely be negatively affected. On average for the year ended December 31, 2011, volatility in the foreign currency market was moderate, continuing a trend that had started in April 2009 and continued in May and November 2010 when volatility increased in response to the Greek and Irish debt crises, respectively. Volatility continued in 2011, particularly due to the Japanese earthquake in the beginning of 2011 as well as currency market intervention by Japanese monetary authorities. Additionally, the continued European debt crisis throughout 2011, particularly August and September 2011, were periods of elevated volatility in the foreign currency markets, which resulted in an increase in volumes and retail and institutional revenues. However, significant swings in market volatility can also result in increased customer trading losses, higher turnover and reduced trading volume. It is difficult to predict volatility and its effects in the FX market. Like other financial services firms, our business and profitability are directly affected by factors that are beyond our control, such as economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in the volume of foreign currency transactions, changes in supply and demand for currencies, movements in currency exchange rates, changes in the financial strength of market participants, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in the markets in which such transactions occur, changes in how such transactions are processed and disruptions due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events. Any one or more of these factors, or other factors, may adversely affect our business and results of operations and cash flows. A weakness in equity markets, such as the current economic slowdown causing a reduction in trading volume in U.S. or foreign securities and derivatives, could result in reduced trading activity in the FX market and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a result, period to period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and our future operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations or declines. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. We are dependent on our risk management policies and the adherence to such policies by our trading staff. Our policies, procedures and practices are used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks, including risks related to human error, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering. Some of our methods for managing risk are discretionary by nature and are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on standard industry practices. These methods may not adequately prevent losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than historical changes in market prices. Our risk management methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing software or hardware failures. In addition, we may elect to adjust our risk management policies to allow for an increase in risk tolerance, which could expose us to the risk of greater losses. Our risk management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. These methods may not protect us against all risks or may protect us less than anticipated, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We depend on our proprietary technology. Any disruption or corruption of our proprietary technology or our inability to maintain technological superiority in our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We may experience failures while developing our proprietary technology. We rely on our proprietary technology to receive and properly process internal and external data. Any disruption for any reason in the proper functioning, or any corruption, of our software or erroneous or corrupted data may cause us to make erroneous trades, accept customers from jurisdictions where we do not possess the proper licenses, authorizations or permits, or require us to suspend our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. For example, our technology platform includes a real time margin-watcher feature to ensure that open positions are automatically closed out if a customer becomes at risk of going into a negative balance on his or her account. Any disruption or corruption of this feature would subject us to the risk that amounts owed to us by such customer exceed the collateral in such customer’s account, and our policy is generally not to pursue claims for negative equity against our customers. In order to remain competitive, we need to continuously develop and redesign our proprietary technology. In doing so, there is an ongoing risk that failures may occur and result in service interruptions or other negative consequences, such as slower quote aggregation, slower trade execution, erroneous trades, or mistaken risk management information. Our success in the past has largely been attributable to our proprietary technology that has taken us many years to develop. We believe our proprietary technology has provided us with a competitive advantage relative to many FX market participants. If our competitors develop more advanced technologies, we may be required to devote substantial resources to the development of more advanced technology to remain competitive. The FX market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing trading systems, practices and techniques. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes in the future, develop new technology, realize a return on amounts invested in developing new technologies, and as such, may not remain competitive in the future. System failures could cause interruptions in our services or decreases in the responsiveness of our services which could harm our business. If our systems fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in operations, slower response times or decreased customer service and customer satisfaction. Our ability to facilitate transactions successfully and provide high quality customer service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We do not have fully redundant 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS capabilities. While we currently maintain a disaster recovery plan (“DRP”), which is intended to minimize service interruptions and secure data integrity, our DRP may not work effectively during an emergency. Any system failure that causes an interruption in our services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or affects access to our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and fair business practice laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our proprietary technology, intellectual property rights and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. We also rigorously control access to our proprietary technology. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology that is material to our business operations. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. Our cost structure is largely fixed. If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our cost structure is largely fixed. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services, as well as our fixed operating infrastructure, such as computer hardware and software, hosting facilities and security and staffing levels. If demand for our products and services declines and, as a result, our revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis and our profitability may be materially adversely affected. We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements and costs on us. Failure to comply with the rapidly evolving laws and regulations governing our FX and other businesses may result in regulatory agencies taking action against us and significant legal expenses in defending ourselves, which could adversely affect our revenues and the way we conduct our business. We are regulated by governmental bodies and/or self-regulatory organizations in a number of jurisdictions, including the U.S., the U.K., Hong Kong, Australia and Japan. We are also exposed to substantial risks of liability under federal and state securities laws, federal commodity futures laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Federal Reserve and state securities regulators. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our customers and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders. Substantially all of our operations involving the execution and clearing of transactions in foreign currencies, CFDs, gold and silver and securities are conducted through subsidiaries that are regulated by governmental bodies or self-regulatory organizations. In the United States, we are principally regulated by the CFTC and the NFA. We are also regulated in all regions by applicable regulatory authorities and the various exchanges of which we are members. For example, we are regulated by the FSA in the U.K., the SFC, the ASIC, the KLFB and the JFSA. In addition, certain of our branch offices in Europe, while subject to local regulators, are regulated by the FSA with respect to, among other things, FX, CFDs and net capital requirements. These regulators and self-regulatory organizations regulate the conduct of our business in many ways and conduct regular examinations of our business to monitor our compliance with these regulations. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to: • our sales practices, including our interaction with and solicitation of customers and our marketing activities; 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the custody, control and safeguarding of our customers’ assets; • account statements, record-keeping and retention; • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries; • making regular financial and other reports to regulators; • anti-money laundering practices; • licensing for our operating subsidiaries and our employees; • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates; and • supervision of our business. Compliance with these regulations is complicated, time consuming and expensive. Even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that applicable laws and regulations have been violated. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to fines and other penalties which could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to conduct our business as planned. In addition, we could incur significant legal expenses in defending ourselves against and resolving actions or investigations by such regulatory agencies. We accept customers from many jurisdictions in a manner which we believe does not require local registration, licensing or authorization. As a result, our growth may be limited by future restrictions in these jurisdictions and we remain at risk that we may be exposed to civil or criminal penalties or be required to cease operations if we are found to be operating in jurisdictions without the proper license or authorization or if we become subject to regulation by local government bodies. Trading volume for 2011 with customers resident in jurisdictions in which we or our agents are not licensed or authorized by governmental bodies and/or self-regulatory organizations was, in the aggregate, approximately 48% of our total customer trading volume. We seek to deal with customers resident in foreign jurisdictions in a manner which does not breach any local laws or regulations where they are resident or require local registration, licensing or authorization from local governmental or regulatory bodies or self-regulatory organizations. We determine the nature and extent of services we can provide and the manner in which we conduct our business with customers resident in foreign jurisdictions based on a variety of factors. In jurisdictions where we are not licensed or authorized, we are generally restricted from direct marketing to retail investors including the operation of a website specifically targeted to investors in a particular foreign jurisdiction. This restriction may limit our ability to grow our business in such jurisdictions or may result in increased overhead costs or lower service quality to customers in such jurisdictions. Accordingly, we currently have only a limited presence in a number of significant markets and may not be able to gain a significant presence there unless and until legal and regulatory barriers to international firms in certain of those markets are modified. Existing and future legal and regulatory requirements and restrictions may adversely impact our international expansion on an ongoing basis and we may not be able to successfully develop our business in a number of markets, including emerging markets, as we currently plan. We consult with local counsel in jurisdictions where our total retail trading volume per jurisdiction is greater than 1%. In the aggregate, these jurisdictions represent approximately 81% of our total retail customer trading volume. We consult with local counsel in these jurisdictions for advice regarding whether we are operating in compliance with local laws and regulations (including whether we are required to be licensed or authorized) or, in some cases where licensing or authorization requirements could be read to be applicable to foreign dealers without a local presence, whether such requirements are generally not enforced. We generally do not consult with local counsel in jurisdictions where the total retail trading volume per jurisdiction is less than 1%. These jurisdictions represent approximately 19% of our total trading volume in the aggregate. In these jurisdictions that each have less than 1% of our total trading volume, we are accordingly exposed to the risk that we may be found to be operating in jurisdictions without required licenses or authorizations or without being in compliance with local legal or regulatory requirements. Furthermore, where we have taken 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS legal advice we are exposed to the risk that our legal and regulatory analysis is subsequently determined by a local regulatory agency or other authority to be incorrect and that we have not been in compliance with local laws or regulations (including local licensing or authorization requirements) and to the risk that the regulatory environment in a jurisdiction may change, including a circumstance where laws or regulations or licensing or authorization requirements that previously were not enforced become subject to enforcement. In any of these circumstances, we may be subject to sanctions, fines and restrictions on our business or other civil or criminal penalties and our contracts with customers may be void or unenforceable, which could lead to losses relating to restitution of client funds or principal risk on open positions. Any such action in one jurisdiction could also trigger similar actions in other jurisdictions. We may also be required to cease the conduct of our business with customers in any such jurisdiction and/or we may determine that compliance with the laws or licensing, authorization or other regulatory requirements for continuance of the business are too onerous to justify making the necessary changes to continue that business. In addition, any such event could impact our relationship with the regulators or self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions where we are subject to regulation, including our regulatory compliance or authorizations. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable legal requirements, guidelines or regulations, our financial condition and results of operations, and our reputation and ability to engage in business, may be materially adversely affected. We periodically evaluate our activities in relation to jurisdictions in which we are not currently regulated by governmental bodies and/or self-regulatory organizations on an ongoing basis. This evaluation may involve speaking with regulators, local counsel and referring brokers or white labels (firms that offer our trading services to their clients under their own brand name in exchange for a revenue sharing arrangement with us) operating in any such jurisdiction and reviewing published regulatory guidance and examining the licenses that any competing firms may have. As a result of these evaluations we may determine to alter our business practices in order to comply with legal or regulatory developments in such jurisdictions and, at any given time, are generally in various stages of updating our business practices in relation to various jurisdictions. For example, in 2010, we received a request from the JFSA, the regulatory authority responsible for the regulation of FX trading in Japan, that we submit a plan for coming into compliance with JFSA requirements with respect to transacting business with Japanese retail customers who register to trade with foreign entities not regulated by the JFSA. Accordingly, we submitted a plan to the JFSA to transfer our Japanese retail customers registered with any of our subsidiaries to our subsidiary, FXCMJ, which is also regulated with the KLFB in Japan. As of December 31, 2011, no Japanese clients are trading directly with an FXCM entity other than FXCMJ. In Canada, the securities and derivatives industry is governed locally by provincial or territorial legislation, and there is no national regulator. The regulation of FX products differs from province to province and territory to territory. For example, the provincial laws of British Columbia would require us to register as an investment dealer to offer our trading services directly. We previously conducted our business in British Columbia through an affiliate that was a registered exchange contract dealer with the British Columbia Securities Commission. We currently conduct our business in British Columbia through an arrangement with a registered investment dealer in Canada. In other provinces and territories in Canada, where we conduct the bulk of our Canadian business, we have historically provided our services directly from our U.S. facilities, without registering as a dealer in Canada. We are aware that local regulators in certain Canadian provinces and territories have begun to determine that FX trading services must be carried out through a registered investment dealer. Accordingly, we have entered an agreement with a registered investment dealer to address these regulatory developments. As a result of these, among other potential future changes in our business practices in certain jurisdictions, customers may decide to transact their business with a different FX broker, which may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may also be subject to enforcement actions and penalties by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions or be subject to customer claims. We conduct our business within a heavily regulated environment and may be exposed to increased compliance costs or may be restricted from entering new markets as a result of extensive regulatory requirements. The cost of compliance with international regulations may adversely increase our costs, affect our revenue and impede our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business internationally, we are 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS subject to regulations in many different countries in which we operate. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new or different interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected, or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets, or we may be liable for additional costs, which may be substantial. Servicing customers via the internet may require us to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we are deemed to conduct business. Failure to comply with such laws may negatively impact our financial results. Since our services are available over the internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may require us to qualify to do business in their country. We believe that the number of our customers residing outside of the United States will increase over time. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to internet services available to their citizens from service providers located elsewhere. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could subject us to sanctions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Many of the laws and regulations by which we are governed grant regulators broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance with their rules and regulations and to impose penalties and other sanctions for non-compliance. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal compliance function as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel, which we may not be able to do. If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. In 2007, the NFA filed a complaint against us and our chief executive officer alleging, among other things, that we were using deficient promotional material, had not established and implemented an adequate anti-money laundering program and failed to supervise the firm’s operations. As part of the settlement that resulted in the action being terminated, we neither admitted nor denied the allegations in the complaint and paid a fine of $175,000. Any disciplinary action taken against us could result in negative publicity, potential litigation, remediation costs and loss of customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In August 2011, Forex Capital Markets, LLC (“FXCM US”) entered into a settlement with the NFA. The settlement terms principally pertain to FXCM’s practice concerning the execution of price improvements or “positive slippage” in its trading execution system prior to August 2010. Under the terms of the settlement, FXCM US agreed, without admitting or denying any of the allegations to pay a fine of $2 million to the NFA and to provide restitution to the affected clients. In October 2011, FXCM US entered into a settlement with the CFTC. The settlement principally addressed allegations regarding FXCM US’s failure to monitor and maintain its trading systems prior to August 2010. FXCM US had previously settled with the NFA for allegations regarding mainly the same underlying issues. Under the terms of the settlement, FXCM US agreed, without admitting or denying any of the allegations, to pay a fine of $6 million to the CFTC and to provide restitution to the affected clients. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further information. A similar or related enforcement action may be brought against us, which could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to conduct our business as planned. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to continual change. Changes in the regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past and there may be future regulatory changes in our industry. The financial services industry in general has been subject to increasing regulatory oversight in recent years. The governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations that regulate our business have proposed and may consider additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. As a result, in the future, we may become subject to new regulations that may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. For example, a regulatory body may reduce the levels of leverage we are allowed to offer to our customers, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. For example, in August 2010, the CFTC released final rules relating to retail FX regarding, among other things, registration, disclosure, recordkeeping, financial reporting, minimum capital and other operational standards. Most significantly the regulations: • impose an initial minimum security deposit amount of 2% of the notional value for major currency pairs and 5% of the notional value for all other retail FX transactions and provide that the NFA will designate which currencies are “major currencies” and review, at least annually, major currency designations and security deposit requirements and adjust such designations and requirements as necessary in light of changes in the volatility of currencies and other economic and market factors; • provide that referring brokers must either meet the minimum net capital requirements applicable to futures and commodity options referring brokers or enter into a guarantee agreement with a CFTC-regulated FX dealer member, along with a requirement that such referring broker may be a party to only one guarantee agreement at a time; • require that the risk disclosure statement provided to every retail FX customer include disclosure of the number of non-discretionary accounts maintained by the futures commission merchant (“FCM”), or retail foreign exchange dealer (“RFED”), that were profitable and those that were not during the four most recent calendar quarters; • require us to ensure that our customers resident in the United States have accounts with our NFA-registered operating entity; • require that FCMs and RFEDs are obligated when re-quoting prices to do so in a symmetrical fashion so that the re-quoted prices do not represent an increase in the spread from the initially quoted prices, regardless of the direction the market moves; and • prohibit the making of guarantees against loss to retail FX customers by FCMs, RFEDs and referring brokers and require that FCMs, RFEDs and referring brokers provide retail FX customers with enhanced written disclosure statements that, among other things, inform customers of the risk of loss. In response to the requirement that our customers resident in the United States maintain trading accounts only with our CFTC-registered operating subsidiary, we have migrated all consenting U.S. resident customer accounts established with our foreign affiliates to our CFTC-regulated operating subsidiary. All other U.S. resident accounts not established with our CFTC-regulated operating subsidiary have been locked from trading pending further instructions from the account holders. However, in order to permit us to comply with the rules of the FSA regarding the transfer of client accounts, the process of migrating U.S. resident customer accounts held by our FSA-regulated operating subsidiary in the U.K. was not completed until October 29, 2010, eleven calendar days following the date on which the new regulations became effective. As a result, the CFTC imposed a fine of $140,000 on Forex Capital Markets Limited, one our FSA-regulated operating subsidiaries in the U.K. To date, there have been no other related fines or penalties and do not expect any such fines or penalties to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (“Dodd-Frank Act”), enacted in July 2010 will have broad effects on the derivatives markets generally. For example, this new law may affect the ability of FX market makers to do business or affect the prices and terms on which such market makers will do business with us. The Dodd-Frank Act may also affect the structure, size, depth and liquidity of the FX markets generally. These effects may adversely impact our ability to provide FX transactions to our customers and could have a material adverse affect on our business and profitability. In the European Union (“EU”), new laws have been proposed to regulate OTC derivatives. These proposals would, among other things, require mandatory central clearing of some derivatives, higher collateral requirements, and higher capital charges for bilaterally cleared OTC derivatives. These proposals are still at the consultation stage and detailed legislative proposals have not yet been published. Accordingly, it is difficult to ascertain what impact these proposals, once adopted, will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. If the products that we trade become subject to mandatory central clearing, exchange trading, higher collateral requirements or higher capital charges, this may have an impact upon the economics of our business and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Regulators in the EU have also proposed stringent regulation of remuneration practices, including proposals to require 50% of variable remuneration to be paid in the form of shares or similar capital requirements, 40% to 60% of variable remuneration to be deferred, bonuses to be proportionate to fixed salary, and up-front cash bonuses to be capped at 20% of the total bonus (30% for particularly large bonuses). The U.K.’s FSA has introduced its own proposals to widen the application of its Remuneration Code to all firms subject to the Capital Requirements Directive and to include certain quantitative restrictions on bonuses in line with the European Union’s proposals. These proposals, if adopted, may constrain our ability to operate certain remuneration practices in relation to our operations in the U.K. and elsewhere in Europe. In addition, the ASIC is considering new regulations which would limit any inappropriate advertising by the industry, provide disclosure benchmarks for over-the-counter CFD providers, and devise a policy on customer suitability. Additionally, the JFSA announced in August 2010 that maximum leverage for Japanese customers would be reduced from 100-to-l to 50-to-1, and then announced a further reduction from 50-to-l to 25-to-1, effective August 2011. The impact of these regulations may diminish trading volume of our customers in Japan which can affect our revenue and profitability. In Korea, the Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory Services announced that, as of March 2012, FX traders would be limited to 10-to-1 leverage, down from 20-to-1, and down from 50-to-1 in September 2009. These and other future regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability and the FX industry as a whole. In addition, the regulatory enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to certain practices or types of transactions that, in the past, were considered permissible and appropriate among financial services firms, but that later have been called into question or with respect to which additional regulatory requirements have been imposed. Legal or regulatory uncertainty and additional regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. We are required to maintain high levels of regulatory capital, which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions. The CFTC, NFA and other U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have stringent rules requiring that we maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries that conduct our spot foreign exchange, CFDs, including contracts for gold, silver, oil and stock indices and securities business. As of December 31, 2011, on a separate company basis, we were required to maintain approximately $71.1 million of minimum net capital in the aggregate across all jurisdictions, representing a $18.4 million increase from our minimum net capital requirement at December 31, 2010. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify minimum capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. For example, in 2010, the FSA increased our capital requirements in the 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS U.K. and may do so again in the future. Additional revisions to this framework or new capital adequacy rules applicable to us may be proposed and ultimately adopted, which could further increase our minimum capital requirements in the future. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has proposed a new regime for regulatory capital and liquidity, known as Basel III. The majority of these proposals were issued on December 16, 2010. The proposals include more restricted definitions of what counts as eligible regulatory capital, liquidity standards, and reform of counterparty credit risk rules. On July 20, 2011, the European Commission published its proposals for the implementation of Basel III capital requirements into EU law through the Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive (known as CRD IV). It is proposed that this legislation will enter into force on January 1, 2013 and will be gradually brought into force, applying in full from January 1, 2019. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements will generally increase in proportion to the size of our business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries. As a result, we will need to increase our regulatory capital in order to expand our operations and increase our revenue, and our inability to increase our capital on a cost-efficient basis could constrain our growth. In addition, in many cases, we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice, which could constrain our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations. In particular, these restrictions could limit our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions on our shares and, in some cases, could adversely affect our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely. We are required to report the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and to report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business and revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our subsidiaries. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act and similar laws may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As a financial services firm, we and our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the Patriot Act, that require that we know our customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the Patriot Act and similar laws and regulations are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties or reputational damage due to noncompliance. Such penalties and subsequent remediation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Due to the evolving nature of financial regulations in certain jurisdictions of the world, our operations may be disrupted if a regulatory authority deems them inappropriate and requires us to comply with additional regulatory requirements. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past and there may be future regulatory changes affecting our industry. The financial services industry in general has been subject to increasing regulatory oversight in various jurisdictions throughout the world. We have benefited from recent regulatory liberalization in several emerging markets in developing regions enabling us to increase our presence in those markets. Our ability to continue to expand our presence in these regions, however, will depend to a large extent upon continued evolution of the regulatory environment in these several markets, and there is no assurance that favorable regulatory trends will continue. Moreover, we currently have only a limited presence in a number of significant markets and may not be able to gain a 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS significant presence there unless and until regulatory barriers to international firms in certain of those markets are modified. Consequently, our recent success in various regions may not continue or we may not be able to develop our business in emerging markets as we currently plan. To the extent current activities are deemed inappropriate, we may incur a disruption in services offered to current customers as we are forced to comply with additional regulations. Attrition of customer accounts and failure to attract new accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Even if we do attract new customers, we may fail to attract the customers in a cost-effective manner, which could materially adversely affect our profitability and growth. Our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers. Although we offer products and tailored services designed to educate, support and retain our customers, our efforts to attract new customers or reduce the attrition rate of our existing customers may not be successful. If we are unable to maintain or increase our customer retention rates or generate a substantial number of new customers in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and comprehensive income and cash flows would likely be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred advertising and marketing expenses of $34.9 million. Although we have spent significant financial resources on advertising and marketing expenses and plan to continue to do so, these efforts may not be a cost-effective way to attract new customers. In particular, we believe that while rates for desirable advertising and marketing placements, including online, search engine, print and television advertising fell in 2008, 2009 and 2010 due to the overall economic slow-down, those rates began to increase in 2011 and are likely to increase in the foreseeable future. As a result, we may be disadvantaged relative to our larger competitors in our ability to expand or maintain our advertising and marketing commitments, which may raise our customer acquisition costs. Additionally, our advertising and marketing methods are subject to regulation by the CFTC and NFA. The rules and regulations of these organizations impose specific limitations on our sales methods, advertising and marketing. If we do not achieve our advertising objectives, our profitability and growth may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to litigation risk which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to liability under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes over trade terms with customers and other market participants, customer losses resulting from system delay or failure and customer claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted customer assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation for our previous operations that may be deemed to have violated applicable rules and regulations in various jurisdictions. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms have been increasing, particularly in the current environment of heightened scrutiny of financial institutions. The amounts involved in the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our currency pairs, can result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from such trades. Dissatisfied customers may make claims against us regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands. Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to customer accounts. Although our customer agreements generally provide that we may exercise such rights with respect to customer accounts as we deem reasonably necessary for our protection, our exercise of these rights may lead to claims by customers that we did so improperly. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even claims without merit can damage our reputation or raise concerns among our customers, we may feel compelled to settle 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS claims at significant cost. The initiation of any claim, proceeding or investigation against us, or an adverse resolution of any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” beginning on page 37 of this Annual Report for a description of pending material legal proceedings we are currently involved in. We may be subject to customer litigation, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and harm to our reputation as a result of employee misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our customers, use customer assets improperly or without authorization, carry out improper activities on behalf of customers or use confidential customer or company information for personal or other improper purposes, as well as misrecord or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. In addition, employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for customers, may cause us to enter into transactions that customers disavow and refuse to settle. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur in the aftermath of any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. Misconduct by our employees or former employees could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It may not be possible to deter or detect employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our employees may also commit good faith errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence or otherwise, as well as regulatory actions. Misconduct by employees of our customers can also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our customer was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied customers can make claims against us, including claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by associated persons and failures in the processing of transactions. Any restriction in the availability of credit cards as a payment option for our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We currently allow our customers to use credit cards to fund their accounts with us. There is a risk that in the future, new regulations or credit card issuing institutions may restrict the use of credit and debit cards as a means to fund accounts used to trade in investment products. Deposits from credit cards represented less than 20% of total cash deposits in 2011. The elimination or a reduction in the availability of credit cards as a means to fund customer accounts, particularly for our customers residing outside the United States, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our customer accounts may be vulnerable to identity theft and credit card fraud. Credit card issuers have adopted credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to prevent identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to ensure that our services, including customer account maintenance, comply with these rules. There can be no assurances, however, that our services are fully protected from unauthorized access or hacking. If there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, we may experience reputational damage and parties could seek damages from us. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the current environment facing financial services firms, a firm’s reputation is critically important. If our reputation is harmed, or the reputation of the online financial services industry as a whole or retail FX industry is harmed, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with issues that may give rise to reputation risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, customer data protection, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, credit, liquidity, operational and market risks inherent in our business. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Any such sanction would materially adversely affect our reputation, thereby reducing our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. In addition, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected if the reputation of the online financial services industry as a whole or retail FX industry is damaged. In recent years, a number of financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations from highly publicized incidents that in turn resulted in significant and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. The perception of instability within the online financial services industry could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The loss of members of our senior management could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. We rely on members of our senior management to execute our existing business plans and to identify and pursue new opportunities. Our chief executive officer, Drew Niv, has been our chief executive officer since our founding and was one of our founders. Certain others on our management team have been with us for most of our history and have significant experience in the FX industry. Our continued success is dependent upon the retention of these and other key executive officers and employees, as well as the services provided by our trading staff, technology and programming specialists and a number of other key managerial, marketing, planning, financial, technical and operations personnel. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to grow our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain such employees. Our acquisitions of ODL and several Japanese operating entities may adversely affect our business, and new acquisitions or joint ventures that we may pursue could present unforeseen integration obstacles. We completed our acquisition of ODL, a London-based broker dealer of FX, CFDs, spread betting, stocks and options with substantial business in U.K. and Europe on October 1, 2010. In March 2011 and October 2011, we acquired the retail FX businesses of FXCMJ, formerly GCI, and the Japanese FX broker Foreland, respectively. The process of integrating the operations of these entities with ours may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention as the acquisitions will increase the geographic footprint of our operations, especially in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Any substantial diversion of management attention or difficulties in operating any of the combined business could affect our ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. The unsuccessful integration of any of the operations of these entities with ours may also have adverse short-term effects on reported operating results and may lead to the loss of key personnel. In addition, customers from these entities may react unfavorably to the combination of our businesses or we may be exposed to additional liabilities of the combined business, both of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We may also pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures that could present integration obstacles or costs. We may not realize any of the benefits we anticipated from the strategy and we may be exposed to additional liabilities of any acquired business, any of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS operations. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional limited liability company interests in FXCM Holdings, LLC, or Holdings Units, or shares of our Class A common stock, which would dilute ownership. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, we introduced trading in CFDs. Through our acquisition of ODL, we increased the size of our CFD business and added spread betting and equity options. We face the same risks with these products that we face in our FX trading business, including market risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk, technology risk, third party risk and risk of human error. Furthermore, the volatility of the CFD and spread betting markets may have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain profit margins similar to the profit margins we have realized with respect to FX trading. The introduction of these and other potential financial products also poses a risk that our risk management policies, procedures and practices, and the technology that supports such activities, will be unable to effectively manage these new risks to our business. In addition, these offerings may be subject to regulation under applicable securities or other consumer protection laws. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries, FXCM Securities Limited and Forex Capital Markets Limited (which are licensed with the FSA in the U.K.), FXCM Australia Limited (which is licensed with the ASIC) and FXCMJ (which is licensed with the KLFB and the JFSA) offer and sell CFDs outside the United States in compliance with applicable local regulatory requirements. CFDs are not and may not be offered in the United States by us and are not eligible for resale to U.S. persons. They are not registered with the SEC or any U.S. regulator. CFDs may not be enforceable in the United States. In the event that an offer or sale of CFDs by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was to constitute an offer or sale of securities subject to the U.S. federal securities laws or swaps, futures, forwards or other instruments over which the CFTC has, or under the Dodd-Frank Act, will have jurisdiction, we would be required to comply with such U.S. laws with respect to such offering. In that event, we may determine that it would be too onerous or otherwise not feasible for us to continue such offers or sales of CFDs. We currently derive approximately 15.7% of our revenues from our CFD business. We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth and retain our customers. The rapid growth of our business during our short history has placed significant demands on our management and other resources. If our business continues to grow at a rate consistent with our historical growth, we may need to expand and upgrade the reliability and scalability of our transaction processing systems, network infrastructure and other aspects of our proprietary technology. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our technology systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases in our business activity in a timely manner, which could lead to operational breakdowns and delays, loss of customers, a reduction in the growth of our customer base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, increased litigation or customer claims, regulatory sanctions or increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, due to our rapid growth, we will need to continue to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and motivated officers and employees. We may not be able to attract or retain the officers and employees necessary to manage this growth effectively. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be unable to respond to customers’ demands for new services and products and our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. New services and products provided by our competitors may render our existing services and products less competitive. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to customers’ demands for new services and products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers. We may not be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services and products. In addition, our new service and product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to customer requirements or changing industry practices, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or service or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our revolving credit facility is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company and is secured by a pledge of certain equity interests of the Company’s domestic and foreign subsidiaries. The credit facility also contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions, and it could therefore limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. We have, from time to time, financed our liquidity needs in part from borrowings made under a revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility provides for a revolving credit line of up to $75.0 million. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants including, among others, covenants relating to consolidated leverage ratio, excess net capital requirements, and net unhedged exposure. The credit agreement also contains financial covenants relating to limitations on liens, investments, payments, fundamental changes, dispositions, the incurrence of indebtedness, and transactions with affiliates. The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including, among others, non payments of principal and interest; breach of representations and warranties; failure to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement; the existence of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; insolvency; and a change of control. Failure to comply with these restrictive or financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations or general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the credit agreement could result in a default. An event of default would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our debt or it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. There were no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2011. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further information on our credit facility. Despite current indebtedness levels associated with our credit facility, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our current leverage. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Under certain circumstances, the credit facility may be increased during the term of the credit agreement by up to $75.0 million thereby increasing the aggregate amount of the credit facility up to a maximum of $150.0 million. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. We face significant competition. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have larger customer bases, more established brand recognition and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, some of our competitors and many potential competitors are better capitalized than we are and able to obtain capital more easily which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We compete in the FX market based on our ability to execute our customers’ trades at competitive prices, to retain our existing customers and to attract new customers. Certain of our competitors have larger customer 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS bases, more established name recognition, a greater market share in certain markets, such as Europe, and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These advantages may enable them, among other things, to: • develop products and services that are similar to ours, or that are more attractive to customers than ours, in one or more of our markets; • provide products and services we do not offer; • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable or efficient, or less expensive than ours; • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses, such as FX options listed securities, CFDs, including contracts for precious metals, energy and stock indices, and OTC derivatives; • adapt at a faster rate to market conditions, new technologies and customer demands; • offer better, faster and more reliable technology; • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets; • more efficiently engage in and expand existing relationships with strategic alliances; • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and • develop stronger relationships with customers. These larger and better capitalized competitors, including commercial and investment banking firms, may have access to capital in greater amounts and at lower costs than we do and thus, may be better able to respond to changes in the FX industry, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Access to capital is critical to our business to satisfy regulatory obligations and liquidity requirements. Among other things, access to capital determines our creditworthiness, which if perceived negatively in the market could materially impair our ability to provide clearing services and attract customer assets, both of which are important sources of revenue. Access to capital also determines the degree to which we can expand our operations. Thus, if we are unable to maintain or increase our capital on competitive terms, we could be at a significant competitive disadvantage, and our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and earnings could be materially impaired. Also, new or existing competitors in our markets could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. In addition, our competitors could offer their services at lower prices, and we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive. A fee reduction without a commensurate reduction in expenses would decrease our profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively against these firms, particularly those with greater financial resources, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We may in the future face increased competition, resulting in narrowing bid/offer spreads which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to effectively compete in emerging international markets, either directly or through joint ventures with local firms, the future growth of our business may be adversely affected. We regard emerging international markets as an important area of our future growth. Due to cultural, regulatory and other factors relevant to those markets, however, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well established local presence. In some regions, we may need to enter into joint ventures with local firms in order to establish a presence in the local market, and we may face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. Given the intense competition from other international firms that are also seeking to enter these fast-growing markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the types of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business internationally as planned. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated approximately 89% of our customer trading volume from customers outside the United States. Expanding our business in emerging markets is an important part of our growth 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS strategy. We face significant risks in doing business in international markets, particularly in developing regions. These business, legal and tax risks include: • less developed or mature local technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets; • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, not clearly defined, and subject to unexpected changes, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties; • less developed and established local financial and banking infrastructure, which could make our products and services less accessible in emerging markets; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • inability to enforce contracts in some jurisdictions; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on newly hired local personnel; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; and • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world. In addition, in order to be competitive in these local markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to conduct business locally, we may seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms as we have done, for example, in South Korea. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business and could expose us to reputational and greater operational risks. Our business could be adversely affected if global economic conditions continue to negatively impact our customer base. Our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers who view foreign currency trading as an alternative investment class. If global economic conditions continue to negatively impact the FX market or adverse developments in global economic conditions continue to limit the disposable income of our customers, our business could be materially adversely affected as our customers may choose to curtail their trading in the FX market which could result in reduced customer trading volume and trading revenue. A systemic market event that impacts the various market participants with whom we interact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We interact with various third parties through our relationships with our prime brokers, white labels and referring brokers. Some of these market participants could be overleveraged. In the event of sudden, large market price movements, such market participants may not be able to meet their obligations to brokers who, in turn, may not be able to meet their obligations to their counterparties. As a result, if a systemic collapse in the financial system were to occur, defaults by one or more counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. The decline in short-term interest rates has had an adverse effect on our interest income and revenues. A portion of our revenue is derived from interest income. We earn interest on customer balances held in customer accounts and on our cash held in deposit accounts at various financial institutions. As a result of the recent decline in short-term interest rates, our interest income has declined significantly. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our interest income was approximately $3.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively. Interest income may not 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS return to the amount we reported in prior years, and any further deterioration in short-term interest rates could further adversely affect our interest income and revenue. In addition, this decline in interest rates has narrowed cross-border interest rate differentials, which has adversely affected the “carry trade”, a once popular investing strategy which involves buying a currency that offers a higher interest rate while selling a currency that offers a lower interest rate. The decline in the carry trade has resulted in a decrease in the number of retail FX customers. Accordingly, our growth could be impeded if cross-border interest rate differentials remain compressed. Our operations in certain developing regions may be subject to the risks associated with politically unstable and less economically developed regions of the world. Trading in the currencies of these developing regions may expose our customers and the third parties with whom we interact to sudden and significant financial loss as a result of exceptionally volatile and unpredictable price movements and could negatively impact our business. Our operations in some emerging markets may be subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less economically developed regions of the world, including the risks of war, insurgency, terrorism and government appropriation. For example, we do business in countries whose currencies may be less stable than those in our primary markets. Currency instability or government imposition of currency restrictions in these countries could impede our operations in the FX markets in these countries. In addition, emerging markets may be subject to exceptionally volatile and unpredictable price movements that can expose customers and brokers to sudden and significant financial loss. Trading in these markets may be less liquid, market participants may be less well capitalized and market oversight may be less extensive, all of which could increase trading risk, particularly in markets for derivatives, commodities and currencies. Substantial trading losses by customers or customer or counterparty defaults, or the prospect of them, in turn, could drive down trading volume in these markets. We are dependent on FX market makers to continually provide us with FX market liquidity. In the event we lose access to current prices and liquidity levels, we may be unable to provide competitive FX trading services, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We rely on third party financial institutions to provide us with FX market liquidity. These FX market makers, although under contract with us, have no obligation to provide us with liquidity and may terminate our arrangements at any time. We also rely upon these FX market makers to provide us with competitive FX pricing which we can pass on to our customers. In the event we lose access to the competitive FX pricing and/or liquidity levels that we currently have, we may be unable to provide competitive FX trading services, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a riskless principal between our customers and our FX market makers, we provide our customers with the best bid and offer price for each currency pair from our FX market makers plus a fixed markup. When a customer places a trade and opens a position, we act as the counterparty to that trade and our system immediately opens a trade between us and the FX market maker who provided the price that the customer selected. In the event that an offsetting trade fails, we could incur losses resulting from our trade with our customer. In addition, whether as a result of exceptional volatility or situations affecting the market, the absence of competitive pricing from FX market makers and/or the suspension of liquidity would expose us to the risk of a default by the customer and consequently, trading losses. Although our margining practices are designed to mitigate this risk, we may be unable to close out customer positions at a level where margin posted by the customer is sufficient to cover the customer’s losses. As a result, a customer may suffer losses greater than any margin or other funds or assets posted by that customer or held by us on behalf of that customer. Our policy is generally not to pursue claims for negative equity against our customers. We are subject to risk of default by financial institutions that hold our funds and our customers’ funds. We have significant deposits with banks and other financial institutions. As of December 31, 2011, 41 financial institutions held our funds and our customer funds of $1.2 billion, of which HSBC held 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS approximately 15.5%, Bank of America held approximately 13.1% and Nomura held approximately 29.2%. Pursuant to current guidelines set forth by the NFA and the CFTC for our U.S.-regulated subsidiaries, we are not required to segregate customer funds from our own funds. As such, we aggregate our customers’ funds and our funds and hold them in collateral and deposit accounts at various financial institutions. In the event of insolvency of one or more of the financial institutions with whom we have deposited these funds, both we and our customers may not be able to recover our funds. Moreover, each of HSBC, Bank of America and Nomura holds in excess of 57.7% of our entire customer and our funds, if any of such financial institutions becomes insolvent, a significant portion of our funds and our customer funds may not be recovered. In such an event, our business and cash flow would be materially adversely impacted. Because our customers’ funds are aggregated with our own, they are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other similar insurer domestically or abroad, except to the extent of the maximum insured amount per deposit, which is unlikely to provide significant benefits to our customers. In any such insolvency, we and our customers would rank as unsecured creditors in respect of claims to funds deposited with any such financial institution. As a result, we may be subject to claims by customers due to the loss of customer funds and our business would be harmed by the loss of our own funds. We are subject to counterparty risk whereby defaults by parties with whom we do business can have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our FX trading operations require a commitment of capital and involve risk of losses due to the potential failure of our customers to perform their obligations under these transactions. All retail customers are required to deposit cash collateral in order to trade on our retail platforms. Certain institutional customers that use our retail trading platforms are not required to deposit cash collateral in order to trade on our retail platforms. In rare circumstances, we provide short term credit directly to certain institutional customers when initial collateral does not cover risk exposure. The institutional customers that use our institutional trading platforms all trade via credits and limits set by the customers’ prime brokers and by our prime brokers. As part of our arrangement with our prime brokers, they incur the credit risk regarding the trading of our institutional customers. We also, in certain situations, act in the capacity of prime broker to a select number of institutional customers that use our institutional trading platform As of December 31, 2011, we have extended a minimal amount of credit to institutional customers that use our trading platforms. We have not suffered, nor do we anticipate suffering, losses due to failure to repay amounts credited to those certain institutional customers. We are also subject to counterparty risk with respect to clearing and prime brokers as well as banks with respect to our own deposits and deposits of customer funds. We are exposed to credit risk in the event that such counterparties fail to fulfill their obligations. Although we seek to manage the credit risk arising from institutional counterparties by setting exposure limits and monitoring exposure against such limits, carrying out periodic credit reviews, and spreading credit risk across a number of different institutions to diversify risk, if our credit and counterparty risk management processes are inadequate we could face significant liabilities which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on the services of prime brokers to assist in providing us access to liquidity through our FX market makers. The loss of one or more of our prime brokerage relationships could lead to increased transaction costs and capital posting requirements, as well as having a negative impact on our ability to verify our open positions, collateral balances and trade confirmations. We depend on the services of prime brokers to assist in providing us access to liquidity through our FX market makers. We currently have established three prime brokerage relationships which act as central hubs through which we are able to deal with our FX market makers. In return for paying a transaction-based prime brokerage fee, we are able to aggregate our trading exposures, thereby reducing our transaction costs. Since we trade with our FX market makers through our prime brokers, they also serve as a third party check on our open positions, collateral balances and trade confirmations. If we were to lose one or more of our prime brokerage relationships, we could lose this source of third party verification of our trading activity, 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS which could lead to an increased number of record-keeping or documentation errors. Although we have relationships with FX market makers who could provide clearing services as a back-up for our prime brokerage services, if we were to experience a disruption in prime brokerage services due to a financial, technical, regulatory or other development adversely affecting any of our current prime brokers, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to transfer positions and margin balances to another financial institution in a timely fashion. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker, we might not be able to fully recover the assets we have deposited (and have deposited on behalf of our customers) with the prime broker or our unrealized profits since we will be among the prime broker’s unsecured creditors. Failure of third-party systems or third-party service and software providers upon which we rely could adversely affect our business. We rely on certain third party computer systems or third party service and software providers, including technology platforms, back-office systems, internet service providers and communications facilities. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 10% of our trading volume was derived from trades utilizing the Meta Trader 4 platform, a third-party technology platform we license that is popular in the international trading community and offers our customers an alternative trading interface. Any interruption in these third party services, or deterioration in their performance or quality, could adversely affect our business. If our arrangement with any third party is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative systems or services provider on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our computer infrastructure may be vulnerable to security breaches. Any such problems could jeopardize confidential information transmitted over the internet, cause interruptions in our operations or give rise to liabilities to third parties. Our computer infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic computer break-ins, viruses and similar disruptive problems and security breaches. Any such problems or security breaches could give rise to liabilities to one or more third parties, including our customers, and disrupt our operations. A party able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or customer information, jeopardize the confidential nature of information we transmit over the internet or cause interruptions in our operations. Concerns over the security of internet transactions and the safeguarding of confidential personal information could also inhibit the use of our systems to conduct FX transactions over the internet. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and personal financial information, security breaches could expose us to a risk of financial loss, litigation and other liabilities. Our current insurance policies may not protect us against all of such losses and liabilities. Any of these events, particularly if they result in a loss of confidence in our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We have relationships with referring brokers who direct new customers to us. Failure to maintain these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We have relationships with NFA-registered referring brokers who direct new customers to us and provide marketing and other services for these customers. Many of our relationships with referring brokers are non-exclusive or may be terminated by the brokers on short notice. In addition, under our agreements with referring brokers, they have no obligation to provide us with new customers or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these referring brokers, the failure of the referring brokers to provide us with customers or our failure to create new relationships with referring brokers would result in a loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. To the extent any of our competitors offer more attractive compensation terms to one of our referring brokers, we could lose the broker’s services or be required to increase the compensation we pay to retain the broker. In addition, we may agree to set the compensation for one or more referring brokers at a level where, based on the transaction volume generated by customers directed to us by such brokers, it would have been more economically attractive to seek to acquire the customers directly rather 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS than through the referring broker. To the extent we do not enter into economically attractive relationships with referring brokers, our referring brokers terminate their relationship with us or our referring brokers fail to provide us with customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our relationships with our referring brokers may also expose us to significant reputational and legal risks as we could be harmed by referring broker misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. Our reputation may be harmed by, or we may be liable for, improper conduct by our referring brokers, even though we do not control their activities. Referring brokers maintain customer relationships and delegate to us the responsibilities associated with FX and back-office operations. Furthermore, many of our referring brokers operate websites, which they use to advertise our services or direct customers to us. It is difficult for us to closely monitor the contents of their websites to ensure that the statements they make in relation to our services are accurate and comply with applicable rules and regulations. Under the current rules of the NFA, we are responsible for the activities of any party that solicits or introduces a customer to us unless such party is a member or associate of the NFA. Although all of our referring brokers are members or associates of the NFA, any disciplinary action taken against our referring brokers in the United States and abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows, and, in any event, we may be subject to claims by customers and others concerning the conduct of referring brokers. In August 2010, the CFTC adopted regulations which require that referring brokers either meet the minimum net capital requirements applicable to futures and commodity options referring brokers or enter into a guarantee agreement with a CFTC-regulated FX broker, along with a requirement that such referring broker may be a party to only one guarantee agreement at a time. If the referring brokers with whom we currently do business choose to enter into a guarantee agreement, we cannot assure you that such referring brokers will choose to enter into such a guarantee agreement with us, rather than one of our competitors. We would be liable for the solicitation activity and performance of our referring brokers we guarantee. At this time, we have entered into a guarantee agreement with three referring brokers. We have relationships with white labels who direct customer trading volume to us. Failure to maintain these relationships or develop new white label relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We have relationships with white labels which provide FX trading to their customers by using our technology platform and other services and therefore provide us with an additional source of revenue. In certain jurisdictions, we are only able to provide our services through white label relationships. Many of our relationships with white labels are non-exclusive or may be terminated by them on short notice. In addition, our white labels have no obligation to provide us with minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these white labels, the failure of these white labels to continue to offer online FX trading services to their customers using our technology platform, the loss of requisite licenses by our white labels or our inability to enter into new relationships with white labels would result in a loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. To the extent any of our competitors offer more attractive compensation terms to one or more of our white labels, we could lose the white label relationship or be required to increase the compensation we pay to retain the white label. White labels with whom we have relationships accept customers from many jurisdictions and are therefore subject to regulations in a number of jurisdictions. If such regulations, or changes in such regulations, increase the white labels’ overhead costs, including compliance costs and legal fees and expenses, limit their ability to engage or grow their business and increase their market share or result in sanctions and fines, their business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. This could reduce the volume of customer trading that such white labels direct to us, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our relationships with our white labels also may expose us to significant regulatory, reputational and other risks as we could be harmed by white label misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. If any of our white labels provided unsatisfactory service to their customers or are 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS deemed to have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, our reputation may be harmed or we may be subject to claims as a result of our association with such white label. Any such harm to our reputation or liability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Reduced spreads in foreign currencies, levels of trading activity, trading through alternative trading systems and price competition from principal model firms could harm our business. Computer-generated buy and sell programs and other technological advances and regulatory changes in the FX market may continue to tighten spreads on foreign currency transactions. Tighter spreads and increased competition could make the execution of trades and market-making activities less profitable. In addition, new and enhanced alternative trading systems have emerged as an option for individual and institutional investors to avoid directing their trades through retail FX brokers, which could result in reduced revenue derived from our FX brokerage business. We may also face price competition from our competitors. Many competing firms using a principal model can set their own prices as they generate income from trading with their customers. In contrast, the prices we provide to our customers are set by our FX market makers which vary based on market conditions. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure FXCM Inc.’s only material asset is its interest in FXCM Holdings, LLC, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from FXCM Holdings, LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends. FXCM Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of Holdings Units. FXCM Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. FXCM Inc. intends to cause FXCM Holdings, LLC to make distributions to its unitholders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by it. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of FXCM Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that FXCM Inc. needs funds, and FXCM Holdings, LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Any financing arrangement that we enter into in the future may include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. In addition, FXCM Holdings, LLC is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of FXCM Holdings, LLC (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Subsidiaries of FXCM Holdings, LLC are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to FXCM Holdings, LLC. In addition, our regulated subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements that limit the distributions that may be made by those subsidiaries. FXCM Inc. is controlled by the members of FXCM Holdings, LLC, whose interests may differ from those of our public shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, the members of FXCM Holdings, LLC controlled approximately 80% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. Accordingly, the members of FXCM Holdings, LLC have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and are able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the members of FXCM Holdings, LLC owned 80% of the Holdings Units. Because they hold their ownership interest in our business through FXCM Holdings, LLC, 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS rather than through the public company, these owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, if FXCM Holdings, LLC makes distributions to FXCM Inc., these owners will also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata in accordance with the percentages of their respective limited liability company interests in FXCM Holdings, LLC and their preferences as to the timing and amount of any such distributions may differ from those of our public shareholders. The members of FXCM Holdings, LLC may also have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement that we entered into in connection with our IPO, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, and whether and when FXCM Inc. should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate its obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these owners’ tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions, and Director Independence”. The members of FXCM Holdings, LLC could take steps so that we would qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements available to a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules. The members of FXCM Holdings, LLC control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. While we do not currently intend to take advantage of the exemptions available to a “controlled company” under the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards, if we were to do so we would not be required to have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees would not be required to consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. FXCM Inc. will be required to pay the counterparties to the tax receivable agreement for certain tax benefits it may claim arising in connection with our IPO and related transactions, and the amounts it may pay could be significant. In connection with our IPO, we purchased Holdings Units from our pre-IPO owners, including members of our senior management. We also entered into a tax receivable agreement with our pre-IPO owners that provides for the payment by FXCM Inc. to these parties of 85% of the benefits, if any, that FXCM Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of Holdings Units and certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence”. We expect that the payments that FXCM Inc. may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement, we expect future payments under the tax receivable agreement relating to the purchase by FXCM Inc. of Holdings Units as part of the IPO to aggregate $70.9 million and to range over the next 15 years from approximately $3.4 million to $7.3 million per year and decline thereafter. Future payments to our pre-IPO owners in respect of subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial as well. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates, and the actual payments could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or distributions to FXCM Inc. by FXCM Holdings, LLC are not sufficient to permit FXCM Inc. to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid taxes. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon our pre-IPO owners’ continued ownership of us. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits FXCM Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, or if, at any time, FXCM Inc. elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, FXCM Inc.’s (or its successor’s) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired Holdings Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including that FXCM Inc. would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. As a result, (1) FXCM Inc. could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual benefits FXCM Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and (2) if FXCM Inc. elects to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, FXCM Inc. would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits, which upfront payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. Upon a subsequent actual exchange, any additional increase in tax deductions, tax basis and other benefits in excess of the amounts assumed at the change in control will also result in payments under the tax receivable agreement. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the present value of such anticipated future payments are discounted at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service to challenge a tax basis increase, FXCM Inc. will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the benefits that FXCM Inc. actually realizes in respect of the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of Holdings Units and certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of Class A common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock The market price of our Class A common stock may decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for exchange and future sale. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In addition, we and our pre-IPO owners entered into an exchange agreement under which they (or certain permitted transferees thereof) have the right, from and after the first anniversary of the date of the closing of the IPO (subject to the terms of the exchange agreement), to exchange their Holdings Units for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of the exchange or the perception that an exchange could occur. These exchanges, or the possibility that these exchanges may occur, also might make it more difficult for holders of our Class A common stock to sell such stock in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate. If securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who covers us downgrades our Class A common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above the price you originally paid. In the past few years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against public companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional Class A common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of more than 2.98 billion shares of Class A common stock authorized but unissued, including approximately 57.98 million shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of Holdings Units. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We have reserved 11,295,000 shares for issuance under our 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan, including, as of December 31, 2011, 8,817,890 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options that we have granted to our officers, employees and independent contractors and 85,890 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options that we have granted to our outside directors. See “Item 11. Executive Compensation”. Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by the investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 