D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We rely heavily on our Xiniya brand. Failure to successfully maintain or promote our brand may adversely affect our results of operations. We sell all our products under our Xiniya brand, from which we derive all of our revenues. Therefore, our Xiniya brand is critical for our success as we believe market perception of a brand is one of the key factors for consumers to make decisions to purchase men’s apparel. Our Xiniya brand has been designed to portray a successful, stylish yet relaxed lifestyle philosophy. We spent approximately RMB3.9 million, RMB39.1 million and RMB74.0 million ($11.9 million) on our advertising and promotion activities in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. If we are unsuccessful in promoting our Xiniya brand or fail to maintain our brand position, market perception and consumer acceptance of our Xiniya brand may be eroded, and our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we engaged an entertainment celebrity to promote our Xiniya brand, and thus we are dependent to some extent on the market perception and consumer acceptance of this entertainment celebrity, over whom we have no control. Any negative publicity or disputes involving our Xiniya brand, products or celebrity who endorse our Xiniya brand or the loss of any award accreditation associated with our Xiniya brand as described above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We rely on distributors and authorized retailers to distribute our products to end consumers, to expand our authorized retail network and to achieve our growth target. The loss of, or significant decrease in, sales to our distributors and our authorized retailers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, our products were sold at 1,708 authorized retail outlets, including 118 outlets owned and managed by our distributors, 1,590 authorized retail outlets owned and managed by 1,378 authorized retailers supervised by our 29 distributors as well as two flagship outlets owned and directly operated by us. We generate substantially all of our revenues from the sales of our products to distributors. Sales generated by our five best-performing distributors accounted for 28.5%, 36.2% and 33.4% of our revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. During the same periods, sales to our single largest distributor accounted for 8.6%, 11.0% and 8.8%, respectively, of our revenues. We are subject to the following risks arising from our reliance on our distributors: • we typically enter into agreements with each of our distributors for a one-year term and renew the agreements with them before the expiration of these agreements, and the agreements we have with our existing distributors may not be renewed on the same or similar terms, or at all; • our existing distributors may not continue to place orders with us at historical levels or at all, and if any of our major distributors substantially reduces its volume of purchases from us or ceases its business relationship with us, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected; • most of the distributors of our products are given exclusivity over their respective regions (usually an entire province or municipality), and if any of them terminates or does not renew its distributorship agreement with us, we may not be able to replace it with a new distributor in a timely manner, or the replacement distributor may not be able to manage the same network of retailers or a network of retailers of similar scale; if we are unable to locate a replacement distributor, we would lose sales generated from the retail outlets in the entire region and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected; and • if any of our distributors fails to adhere to its contractual obligation to distribute our products on an exclusive basis, our brand image and sales could be materially adversely affected. A net total of 103 new retail outlets were opened in 2012, consisting of 254 new retail outlets opened and 151 retail outlets closed. Implementation of our growth strategy involves the maintenance and expansion of our authorized retail network, which is owned and managed by third parties, requires close cooperation by our distributors and is subject to many factors beyond our control. In addition, the number and timing of new authorized outlets actually opened during any given period, and their contribution to our distributors’ performance, which in turn will affect our results of operations, depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • availability of suitable locations; • availability of financing to us, our distributors or authorized retailers supervised by our distributors; • complexity of the process for applying for all necessary licenses and permits for the new outlets; • hiring and training of qualified sales personnel; • consumers’ acceptance of our products at specific areas; and • implementation of our sales and marketing policies at the new outlets. If we or our distributors are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not achieve our expansion goals and may fail to achieve our desired growth. A distributor’s failure to distribute our products to the authorized retail network under its jurisdiction could materially adversely affect the business of the authorized retailers of an entire geographic area, as well as our reputation, brand image and results of operations. As most of our distributors have exclusive distribution rights over a certain province, autonomous region or municipality, the failure by such distributor to perform obligations under its distributorship agreement with us may result in a material adverse effect on the business of authorized retailers in such area. If any of our distributors becomes unable or unwilling to supply our products to authorized retailers in the area over which it has exclusive distribution rights, the business of the authorized retailers operating in that area will be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any distributor fails to manage the distribution of our products among the authorized retail outlets located in its authorized region, some authorized retail outlets may have insufficient inventory of a particular product while others outlets have excess inventory of such product, which could adversely affect the sale of our products in that region. The failure of any distributor to distribute our products according to the agreed terms may result in material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the retail network of our products may materially adversely affect our reputation, brand image and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Some of our distributors may fail to pay us for their purchases in a timely manner. Such failure to make timely payment could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our distributors place advance purchase orders at our biannual sales fairs and we offer a credit period of 30 to 90 days to them. We had no overdue accounts receivable as at December 31, 2012. However, we may not be able to receive payment for our products on time or at all if our distributors encounter financial difficulties. While we perform routine credit evaluations of the financial condition of our distributors, we generally require no collateral from our distributors to secure their payment obligations. As our sales increase, the amount of accounts receivable from our distributors may increase. If any distributor fails to pay us for its purchases in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Although China experienced significant economic recovery since 2009 from the global financial crisis and economic downturn, a global economic crisis of similar or more severe scale may reoccur. The impact of a future economic downturn on our distributors cannot be predicted and may be severe, causing a significant deterioration of their businesses. If that happens, they may reduce the volume of their purchase orders significantly and fail to pay us in a timely manner or at all. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if there are not sufficient products in the authorized retail outlets due to the reduction in purchase volume by our distributors, our brand image and reputation may be materially adversely affected. Consumer sales of our products are conducted by distributors and authorized retailers over whom we have limited control. We sell a substantial part of our products to our distributors, who in turn distribute our products to consumers through their self-managed retail outlets and through retail outlets owned and are operated by authorized retailers. We do not have direct contractual relationships with the authorized retailers that sell our products and we rely on distributors to oversee their self-managed retail outlets and retail outlets owned and managed by authorized retailers. As we have no direct control over the authorized retailers, we are only able to require them to comply with our policies, such as exclusivity, customer service, outlet image and pricing, through our distributors based on the distributorship agreements. Any deviation by our distributors and authorized retailers from our marketing and pricing policies or aggressive discounting of the retail prices of our products could result in the erosion of goodwill, a decrease in the market value of our Xiniya brand and an unfavorable public perception about the quality of our products, thus resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our plan to manage new flagship outlets may not succeed, and there may be competition among our company, our distributors and authorized retailers. We plan to open, or provide support to our distributors to open, additional flagship outlets in China. As of December 31, 2012, we supported five distributors in opening and operating five flagship outlets in five different cities. As we have only managed two flagship outlets in Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, we may not have sufficient experience and skills required for successfully managing such flagship outlets. Moreover, as our authorized retail network owned and managed by third parties expands and market penetration of our products increases, there could be competition among our company, our distributors and authorized retailers in the retail market. If we cannot succeed in our management of self-operated flagship outlets or fail to coordinate well with our distributors and authorized retailers to minimize the competition within this retail network, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and we may not achieve our development goals. We operate in a very competitive market and the intense competition we face may result in a decline in our market share and lower profit margins. We operate in the business and leisure apparel sector of the overall men’s apparel industry in the PRC, which is highly competitive. Participants in this market include both international and domestic brands which compete in, among other things, brand loyalty, product variety, product design, product quality, marketing and promotion, retail network coverage, price and the ability to meet delivery commitments to distributors and retailers. This competition has led to leading brands continuing to gain market share at the expense of less established and lower-end brands. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors who may have greater financial resources, greater scale of production, superior product design, better brand recognition and a wider, more diversified and established retail network. To compete effectively and maintain our market share, we may be forced to, among other actions, reduce prices, provide more sales incentives to our distributors and authorized retailers and increase selling expenditures, which may in turn materially adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. We may not be able to accurately track the inventory levels at our distributors or authorized retailers. Our ability to track the sales by our distributors to third-party retailers and the ultimate retail sales by the retailers, and consequently their respective inventory levels, is limited. We have implemented a policy requiring our distributors to provide us with their sales reports on a monthly basis and we carry out random on-site inspections of the authorized retail outlets to track their inventories. The purpose of tracking the inventory level is mainly to gather information regarding the market acceptance of our products so that we can reflect consumers’ preferences in the design and development of our products for the next season. The tracking of inventory levels also helps us to understand the market recognition of our products in a particular region, and thus allows us to adjust our marketing strategy if necessary. The implementation of the policy, however, requires the distributors to accurately report the relevant data to us in a timely manner, which is largely dependent on the cooperation of our distributors. We may not always obtain the required data in time and the data provided to us by our distributors may be inaccurate or incomplete. We plan to implement an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system that will allow us to track sales at the authorized retail outlets on a timely basis. In January 2012, we entered into an agreement to utilize and customize Burgeon Programming and Design’s ERP software. While we are currently in a preliminary phase, we expect to implement the foundation of the ERP system over the next 12 months. Thereafter, we will begin testing the ERP system at up to 400 points of sales. We anticipate that the preliminary phase of ERP implementation will cost approximately RMB12.9 million ($2.1 million) over the course of three to five years. This ERP system is expected to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our distributors, the movement of products through our authorized retail network, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting purposes. If we are unable to roll out the ERP system as planned, we may not be able to accurately track the inventory levels of our distributors or the authorized retail outlets on a timely basis. Inaccurate, mistaken, incomplete or delayed data regarding inventory levels may mislead us to make wrong business judgments for our marketing efforts and sales strategies. If that happens, our operations and financial results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if our distributors or authorized retailers cannot manage inventory levels properly, their future orders of our products may be reduced, which would materially adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are heavily dependent on certain of our key personnel and design and technical personnel. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Our success depends heavily on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, including senior managerial, design and technical personnel. In particular, we rely on the continued services of Mr. Qiming Xu, Mr. Kangkai Zeng and Mr. Mingjiang Liu, as well as our chief designer, Mr. Tiande Liao. Many of them have been with us since the inception of our business. We have not subscribed for key-man life or similar insurance covering our key executives, design and technical personnel. If we lose the services of any of these key employees and cannot replace them with personnel with comparable experience and expertise in a timely manner, our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Our controlling shareholder has substantial influence over our company and its interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Qiming Investment Limited, a British Virgin Islands company solely owned by Mr. Qiming Xu, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, holds a significant percentage of our voting equity. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Xu held approximately 59.0% of our outstanding share capital. As such, Mr. Xu, through Qiming Investment Limited, has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, declaration of dividends and other significant corporate actions. Our controlling shareholder may take actions that are not in the best interests of our other shareholders. These actions may be taken in many cases even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs as part of a sale of our company. Our operations could be materially adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with, or lose the services of, our contract manufacturers. We currently outsource all of our production to third party contractors in China. In 2012, we generated approximately 99.8% of our revenues from sales of products manufactured by our contract manufacturers. We currently use 50 contract manufacturers on a regular basis. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, 33.1%, 30.4% and 29.1%, respectively, of our revenues were attributable to sales of products manufactured by our top five contract manufacturers. As we do not enter into long-term contracts with our contract manufacturers, our contract manufacturers may decide not to accept our future purchase orders on the same or similar terms, or at all. If a contract manufacturer decides to substantially reduce its volume of supply to us or to terminate its business relationship with us, we may not be able to find a proper replacement in a timely manner and may be forced to default on the agreements with our distributors. This may seriously impact our revenues and adversely affect our reputation and relationships with our distributors, causing a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, if any of our contract manufacturers fails to provide the required number of products meeting our quality standards, we may have to delay delivery of products to our distributors, become unable to supply products at all, or even recall products previously dispatched. This could cause us to lose revenues or market share and damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, some contract manufacturers may not fully comply with certain laws, such as labor and environmental laws. If any of our contract manufacturers is found to have violated laws and regulations in the PRC, media reports on such violations may negatively affect our reputation and image, resulting in material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also provide the designs of our products to the contract manufacturers, as well as guidance for manufacturing the products ordered by us. We do not have direct control over the contract manufacturers. If any of them is involved in unauthorized production and sale of goods using our Xiniya brand, our reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our sales, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected if our contract manufacturers fail to deliver products on schedule and at the level of quality expected by our distributors, authorized retailers and consumers. The operation of our business requires successful coordination of several sequential and complex processes. The disruption of any of such processes could interrupt our revenue generation and result in a material adverse effect on our relationships with our distributors, authorized retailers and consumers, our brand name and our financial performance. The manufacture of our products involves raw material and ancillary components selection, tailoring and sewing, assembly and packaging. When introducing new products, our contract manufacturers may experience delays in adjusting or upgrading production lines, delays in expanding manufacturing capacity, disruption in manufacturing processes and failure by our business partners to adequately perform the services we need. All these may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. In addition, a failure or an interruption could occur at any stage of our product development, manufacturing and delivery processes, resulting in products not meeting the expectations of our distributors, authorized retailers and consumers in terms of quality and delivery time, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and reputation. We may not be able to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to rapid changes in consumers’ tastes and preferences. As our men’s casual and business apparel and accessory products are closely linked with fashion and trends, our sales are dependent on our ability to cater to different consumer fashion tastes and preferences. We believe that a substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on market perception and consumers’ acceptance that our brand represents a successful, stylish yet relaxed lifestyle philosophy, which requires continued anticipation and responsiveness to rapidly changing market and fashion trends. Our failure to anticipate accurately and respond to market and fashion trends in a timely manner could result in our distributors experiencing lower sales volumes, lower selling prices and lower profits. This could in turn negatively affect our sales to our distributors in the future, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to continue to engage Jacky Cheung as our brand spokesperson could harm our business. Since October 2007, we have engaged Jacky Cheung, one of the most well-known pop singers in China, as our brand spokesperson to promote our products and brand image. We believe Jacky Cheung’s image embodies the successful and stylish gentleman our brand represents and resonates well with our target customers, who are male professionals between the ages of 25 to 45. Therefore, we believe the engagement of Jacky Cheung has contributed significantly to the sales of our products. Our engagement with Jacky Cheung expired in February 2013 and we are currently in contract renewal negotiations. We expect to extend his term as our brand spokesperson. However, we may not be able to continue to engage Jacky Cheung as our brand spokesperson on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to continue to engage Jacky Cheung and cannot secure an alternate celebrity of similar popularity, the sales of our products could be materially adversely affected and the image of our brand among consumers may be materially adversely impacted. In addition, inappropriate actions taken or unsatisfactory performances by Jacky Cheung or any replacement brand spokespersons that harm their reputations could in turn harm our brand image and reputation, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We may fail to execute our growth strategy or maintain our growth rate. Our rapid growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on our management, including the need to raise working capital, to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees and the coordination and cooperation with our distributors and authorized retailers. In addition, rapid and significant growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, in particular on our internal controls and financial reporting processes and systems. As our operations expand, we expect that additional resources will be required to manage new relationships with investors and additional distributors, as well as other third parties including contract manufacturers, equipment providers, consultants and others. Our ability to manage our working capital, operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategies and a decrease in the market demand for our products and the corresponding drop in the sales of our products could result in an accumulation of inventory in the retail network and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our sales are subject to seasonality and weather conditions, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our industry has historically experienced seasonality, which we expect to continue. We typically achieve higher revenues from the sales of our autumn and winter collections and lower revenues from the sales of our spring and summer collections due to seasonality of demand for men’s business casual apparel and the differences in selling prices between our autumn and winter collections and our spring and summer collections. As a result, our revenues, operating income and net profit have typically been higher during the third and fourth quarters than the rest of the year. In addition, extreme or unusual weather conditions, such as extended periods of warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with such unseasonable conditions, and thus may affect our sales. Our quarterly operating results may also fluctuate from period to period based on changes in fashion trends, consumer demand and the seasonality of consumer spending on men’s apparel. Therefore, any comparison of our operating results between interim and annual results may not be meaningful. Our results of operations are likely to continue to fluctuate due to seasonality. Any material disruption of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and/or authorized retailers from natural disasters, war, political unrest and epidemics could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to uncertainties and contingencies beyond our control that could result in material disruptions and adversely affect our results of operations. These include war, riots, public disorder, civil commotion, fire, earthquake, flood and other natural calamities, epidemics, outbreaks of infectious disease, terrorism, whether locally or nationwide, or incidents such as industrial accidents, equipment failures, power failures or disruptions, the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment and the destruction of buildings, equipment and other facilities due to natural disasters, malfunction of information systems, delays in the distribution and transportation of our products or other operational problems, strikes or other labor difficulties and disruption of public infrastructure such as roads, ports or utilities. Any such disruption of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and/or retailers could cause us to disrupt, limit or delay our production, prevent us from meeting customer orders, increase our costs of production or require us to make additional capital expenditures. We currently do not carry any property insurance or business interruption insurance, and any of such incidents could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could harm our brand and our business. We believe our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are crucial to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include our trademarks for the Xiniya brand. Although we rely on the registration of trademarks and applicable laws to protect our intellectual property rights, these measures may not be sufficient to prevent any misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. The legal framework governing intellectual property in the PRC is still evolving and the level of protection of intellectual property rights in the PRC differs from those in more developed jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, we may not enjoy the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as what is typically available in these jurisdictions. There is no assurance that third parties will not infringe our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and may require significant attention from our management and may be costly. We may have to initiate legal proceedings to defend the ownership of our trademarks or brand against any infringement by third parties. These legal proceedings may be costly and time-consuming and we might be required to devote substantial management time and resources in an attempt to achieve a favorable outcome. The outcome of any legal actions to protect our intellectual property rights may be uncertain. If we are unable to adequately protect or safeguard our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. In addition, some websites operated by third parties which are not related to our company, our directors, management and shareholders, have domain names that are similar to our proprietary domain name, www.xiniya.com, including www.xiniya.com.cn and other websites that use the word “xiniya” or words similar to our brand name. Consumers may view such websites as being operated by or related to our company, and if any contents of such websites infringe the rights of any consumers or other third parties, there may be lawsuits against us and negative news coverage involving us. If this happens, our reputation may be materially adversely affected and our sales, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The legitimate use of trademarks or brands that are similar to our trademarks or brands by other parties may have a negative impact on the goodwill, value and image of our products. The laws of the PRC permit other parties to register trademarks which may be similar to our registered trademarks under certain circumstances. Such activities may cause confusion among consumers. We may not be able to prevent other parties from using trademarks that are similar to ours. Consumers may confuse our products with lower quality third-party products with similar trademarks. If this happens, the goodwill and value of our trademarks and public perception of our brand and image may be adversely affected by the inferior quality of the products and services provided by third parties who use trademarks similar to ours. A negative perception of our brand and image could have a material adverse effect on our sales, and therefore on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. 8 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by claims by third parties for possible infringement of their intellectual property rights. We may face claims from time to time that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors. If any legal proceedings against us for infringement of intellectual property rights are successful, we may be ordered to be responsible for the losses incurred by the claiming parties due to our infringement of their intellectual property rights. Further, if we are unable to obtain a license for the usage of such intellectual property rights on acceptable terms, or at all, or unable to design around such intellectual property rights, we may be prohibited from manufacturing or selling products which are dependent on the usage of such intellectual property rights. In such cases, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, and these types of proceedings and their consequences could divert management’s attention from our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may need additional capital to fund the growth of our business, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and which, if available, could dilute your interest in our company. We expect that our current levels of cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, for both working capital and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. If, however, there are unforeseen changes in general business conditions or unexpected developments in our business or expansion, we may require additional cash resources. For example, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we incur more debt, we will be liable for increased debt service costs and might have to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially acceptable terms is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, our securities; • prevailing conditions of the capital markets in which we seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign exchange; and • economic, political and other conditions in China. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds when needed could limit our ability to expand or develop our operations to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. Our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected by labor shortages, an increase in labor costs, any change to the PRC labor laws and regulations or by labor disputes. We operate in a labor-intensive industry. Although we currently outsource most of our production, we plan to construct new manufacturing and logistic facilities. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Qualified individuals are in short supply and competition for these employees is intense. We incurred labor costs of RMB8.8 million in 2010, RMB16.3 million in 2011 and RMB21.0 million ($3.4 million) in 2012, representing 1.5%, 1.9% and 1.8% of our total operating costs in the corresponding periods. In line with the planned increase in in-house production capacity, we expect our labor costs to increase significantly. Labor costs in the PRC have increased and may continue to increase in the future. If the labor shortage intensifies, the labor costs in the PRC increase substantially and we cannot pass on such increase to our customers by increasing our sales prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Further, labor disputes, work stoppages or slowdowns at our facility or any of our contract manufacturers or suppliers or at construction or engineering firms to be engaged in the construction of our new manufacturing and logistic facilities could significantly disrupt our operations or our expansion plans. Delays caused by any such disruptions could materially adversely affect our production and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are exposed to environmental liability. Changes in existing laws and regulations or additional or stricter laws and regulations on environmental protection in China could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The production of certain products by our contract manufacturers, particularly leather men’s apparel, footwear and leather accessories, is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing products that may produce environmental wastes to adopt effective measures to control and properly dispose of industrial wastes. If an enterprise fails to comply with such laws or regulations and causes pollution, the environmental protection authorities may levy fines or even order the enterprise to be closed if the enterprise has caused serious pollution. We have no direct control over our contract manufacturers. If any of them fails to comply with any PRC environmental laws or regulations, any such violations or any media reports on such violations may negatively affect our reputation and image, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be exposed to product liability, property damage or personal injury claims, which may adversely affect our reputation and business. All of our products are sold in China. We may be exposed to product liability claims and we may, as a result, have to expend significant financial and managerial resources to defend against such claims. Such product liability claim risks may increase as legal concepts in product liability begin to develop and mature in China and in other countries and regions where our products may be sold in the future. In line with common industry practice, we do not maintain product liability insurance coverage and our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by a successful product liability claim against us. In addition, we do not maintain third party liability insurance against claims for property damage or personal injury. Regardless of the ultimate merits of a claim or dispute, we may face significant costs and expenses to defend against such claims or enter into settlement agreements. We may suffer serious damage to our reputation, be subject to material monetary damages and be subject to government investigations. In such cases, it may lead to fines and sanctions against us and result in negative public perception of our brand, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have a limited operating history and you should not rely on our historical financial data as an indicator of our future financial performance. We have a limited operating history in the men’s apparel industry. We achieved revenue growth at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of over 24% from 2010 to 2012 primarily due to the successful promotion of our brand. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we face with a limited operating history in the competitive men’s apparel industry and should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In particular, we may face challenges in planning our growth strategy and forecasting market demand accurately as a result of our limited historical data and limited experience in implementing and evaluating our business strategies. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, difficulties and challenges as a result of our limited operating history, our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm may audit and report on the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting except where the public company is a non-accelerated filer. We are currently a non-accelerated filer. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Such management report was not subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm, as we are a non-accelerated filer. However, we may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level in the future. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we grant employee stock options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially adversely affected. Share-based compensation is important to attract and retain key personnel. Under our 2010 equity incentive plan, we have a significant number of ordinary shares authorized for future issuance. We may adopt other equity incentive plans in the future. Grants of share-based awards under such plans may lead to incurrence of share-based compensation expenses. We will account for compensation costs for all share-based awards using the fair value method and recognize the expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the accounting guidance of share-based payment under IFRS, which may materially adversely affect our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of our current and future equity incentive plans. Risks Relating to Conducting Business in the PRC Almost all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in the PRC, which are discussed in more detail below. Fluctuations in consumer spending caused by changes in macroeconomic conditions in the PRC may significantly affect our business and financial performance. All of our revenues have been generated in the PRC. Our sales and growth are dependent on consumer consumption and the continued improvement of macroeconomic conditions in the PRC, which in turn depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the near future. There are many factors affecting the level of consumer spending, including but not limited to, interest rates, currency exchange rates, recession, inflation, deflation, political uncertainty, taxation, stock market performance, unemployment levels and general consumer confidence. In addition, we believe that our historical growth rates were largely dependent on the general growth of the PRC economy. We can provide no assurance that the PRC will continue to grow at historical rates, or at all, and any slowdowns or declines in the PRC economy or the world economy in general may materially adversely affect consumer spending, as well as our prospects and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our business may be materially adversely impacted by the recent global financial crisis and economic downturn. The recent global financial crisis and economic downturn may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in a number of ways, including: • we were faced with severe competition during the global financial crisis and economic downturn, due to the decrease of men’s apparel exports from China, which has caused more competitors to sell into the PRC market their products that they had previously planned to export; • an economic slowdown or recession, or even the risk of potential economic slowdown or recession, may cause our distributors to delay, defer or cancel their purchases from us, including previously agreed purchase plans; • under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by foregoing purchases of our products; and • financing and other sources of liquidity may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. These risks may be exacerbated in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or financial crisis. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies adopted by the PRC government, including in relation to the environment, labor and taxation, may adversely affect our business, growth strategies, operating results and financial condition. The political, economic and social conditions in the PRC differ from those in more developed countries in many respects, including structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and trade balance position. For the past three decades, the PRC government has implemented economic reform and measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces in the development of the PRC economy. Although we believe these economic reforms and measures will have a positive effect on the PRC’s overall and long-term development, the resulting changes may also have any adverse effect on our current or future business, financial condition or results of operations. Despite these economic reforms and measures, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development, the allocation of natural resources, production, pricing and management of currency, and there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform or that the current direction of reform will continue. Our ability to successfully expand our business operations in the PRC depends on a number of factors, including macroeconomic and other market conditions and credit availability from lending institutions. Stricter lending policies in the PRC may affect our ability to obtain external financing, which may reduce our ability to implement our expansion strategies. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not implement any additional measures to tighten lending standards or that, if any such measure is implemented, it will not adversely affect our future results of operations or profitability. Demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors: • political instability or changes in social conditions in the PRC; • changes in laws, regulations and administrative directives; • measures which may be introduced to control inflation or deflation; • changes in the rate or method of taxation; and • reduction in tariff protection and other import and export restrictions. These factors are affected by a number of variables which are beyond our control. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, may be required in connection with our initial public offering that was completed in November 2010; the failure to obtain this approval, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and reputation as well as the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and were amended on June 26, 2009. The M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of an application and supporting documents with the CSRC. We completed our initial public offering in November 2010. The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our initial public offering remains unclear. Based on the advice of our PRC legal advisor, Beijing H&J Law Firm, we believe that no CSRC approval was required in the context of our initial public offering as Fujian Xiniya, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise indirectly held by us through Xiniya Hong Kong, was incorporated in the PRC prior to the implementation of the M&A Rules. However, the CSRC may disagree with this assessment. If CSRC approval was required or is retroactively required under new PRC rules or regulations but not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In that case, the relevant regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Meanwhile, any uncertainties or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. 11 Table of Contents The M&A Rules set forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The M&A Rules established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of this regulation to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. Any delay or inability to obtain applicable approvals to complete acquisitions could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, in the future, if any of our acquisitions were subject to the M&A Rules and were found not to be in compliance with the requirements of the M&A Rules, relevant PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC citizens may increase the administrative burden we face and may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or employees or PRC citizen stock option holders to personal liabilities, limit our subsidiary’s abilities to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, or may otherwise expose us to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations may apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his or her registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving an increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liability for the PRC shareholders and the PRC subsidiaries for foreign exchange registration evasion. There is uncertainty concerning under what circumstances residents of other countries and regions can be classified as a PRC resident. The PRC government authorities may interpret our beneficial owners’ status differently or their status may change in the future. Moreover, we may not be fully informed of the identities of the beneficial owners of our company and we cannot assure you that all of our PRC resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, and prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially adversely affected. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Issues related to Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in Share Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Circular 7. Circular 7 replaces the Stock Option Rule and streamlines the foreign exchange control process applicable to share incentive plans implemented by offshore listed companies and extends the foreign exchange registration requirement to a wider range of share incentive plan types and certain foreign nationals residing in China. We and our PRC or foreign employees who may be granted various stock options will be subject to Circular 7 because our company is an overseas publicly listed company. If we or our PRC or foreign employees fail to comply with such regulation, we or our employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Restrictions on foreign exchange under PRC laws may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies and may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under the relevant foreign exchange regulations in the PRC, conversion of the Renminbi is permitted, without the need for SAFE approval, for “current account” transactions, which includes dividends, trade, and service-related foreign exchange transactions, subject to procedural requirements including presenting relevant documentary evidence of such transactions and conducting such transactions at designated foreign exchange banks within China who have the licenses to carry out foreign exchange business. Conversion of the Renminbi for “capital account” transactions, which includes foreign direct investment, loans and investment in negotiable instruments, is still subject to significant limitations and requires approvals from and registration with SAFE and other PRC regulatory authorities. Under our current structure, our source of funds primarily consists of dividend payments from our subsidiary in the PRC. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of our foreign currency obligations or to remit profits out of China. If future changes in relevant regulations were to place restrictions on the ability of our subsidiary to remit dividend payments to us, our liquidity and ability to satisfy our third-party payment obligations and our ability to distribute dividends in respect of the ADSs could be materially adversely affected. We are a holding company that heavily relies on dividend payments from our subsidiary for funding. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and operate our core business through our subsidiaries in the PRC. Therefore, the availability of funds to us to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on dividends received from these subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries incur debt or losses, such indebtedness or losses may impair its ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. As a result, our ability to pay dividends will be restricted. PRC laws require that dividends be paid only out of the net profit calculated according to the PRC accounting principles, which differ in many aspects from generally accepted accounting principles in other jurisdictions, including International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. PRC laws also require foreign-invested enterprises to set aside a part of their net profit as statutory reserves. These statutory reserves are not available for distribution as cash dividends. In addition, restrictive covenants in bank credit facilities or other agreements that we or our PRC subsidiaries may enter into in the future may also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to provide capital or declare dividends to us and our ability to receive distributions. Therefore, these restrictions on the availability and usage of our major source of funding may impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and ADS holders. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under our current corporate structure, our income primarily consists of dividend payments from our subsidiary in the PRC, whose sales are made in Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies is subject to changes in the PRC government’s policies and international economic and political developments. The Renminbi was pegged solely to the U.S. dollar prior to July 21, 2005. Effective from July 21, 2005, the Renminbi is no longer pegged solely to the U.S. dollar. Instead, it is pegged against a basket of foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall within a regulated band each day. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar in the following three years. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the Renminbi traded within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. However, on June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced the adoption of certain measures to further reform the currency exchange system of the PRC to allow broader fluctuation of the Renminbi. In addition, the PRC government has allowed international transactions to be settled in Renminbi in 20 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities in China. Such measures may lead to further appreciation of the Renminbi. There has been pressure from foreign countries on the PRC to adopt a more flexible currency system that could also lead to further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. It is uncertain if the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi will further fluctuate. Any appreciation of the Renminbi may subject us to increased competition from imported men’s apparel. Also, since our revenues and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any depreciation of the Renminbi could materially adversely affect our financial position and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms, as well as our ability to fulfill our foreign currency obligations. Moreover, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi will affect our financial results in U.S. dollars even when there is no change in our underlying business or results of operations. Any change in our tax treatment, including an unfavorable change in preferential corporate tax rates in the PRC, may have a negative impact on our operating results. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC promulgated the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law, which came into effect on January 1, 2008 and superseded both the Foreign-invested Enterprise and Foreign Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Provisional Regulations on Enterprise Income Tax of the PRC. The EIT Law consolidated the two separate tax regimes for domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises and imposed a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% for both types of enterprises. Under the EIT Law, foreign-invested enterprises that enjoyed a preferential tax rate prior to the EIT Law’s promulgation are gradually transitioning to the new tax rate over five years from January 1, 2008. Foreign-invested enterprises that enjoyed a tax rate of 24% had their tax rate increased to 25% in 2008. Enterprises that enjoyed a fixed period of tax exemption and reduction prior to the EIT Law’s promulgation continue to enjoy such preferential tax treatment until the expiration of such prescribed period, and for those enterprises whose preferential tax treatment had not commenced before due to lack of profit, such preferential tax treatment commenced on January 1, 2008. Under the prior tax regime, our operating subsidiary in the PRC, Fujian Xiniya, being a foreign-invested enterprise engaged in manufacturing, was entitled to an enterprise income tax exemption for two years commencing from the first profit-making year (after offsetting all tax losses carried forward from previous years), and a 50% tax reduction for the following three consecutive years. Fujian Xiniya enjoyed a full exemption from enterprise income tax in 2006 and 2007, as well as a 50% reduction of its current enterprise income tax rate of 25% in 2008, 2009 and 2010, which had a significant positive effect on our profit after taxation during the corresponding periods. However, under the EIT Law, Fujian Xiniya has been subject to a 25% tax rate since January 1, 2011. Because of the expiration of the partial exemption from enterprise income tax previously enjoyed by Fujian Xiniya, other considerations aside, the amount of our tax payments has increased in 2011. Any further increase of the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our PRC subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among business entities may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. The tax laws applicable to our business activities are subject to interpretation. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that some of our business activities are not based on arm’s-length prices and adjust our taxable income accordingly. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to us for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income in the future may be materially and adversely affected if we are subject to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our future worldwide income may be subject to PRC income tax. Under the EIT Law, if an enterprise incorporated outside the PRC has its “actual management” located within the PRC, such enterprise may be recognized as a PRC tax resident enterprise and be subject to the unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income. Since most of our management is currently located in the PRC, we may be subject to PRC income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. According to the EIT Law, dividends received by a qualified PRC tax resident enterprise from another qualified PRC tax resident enterprise are exempted from enterprise income tax. It remains unclear what the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption are and whether dividends declared and paid by Fujian Xiniya and Xiniya (China) Company Limited to Xiniya Hong Kong will be exempted from enterprise income tax. Our financial performance will be adversely affected if such dividends are subject to PRC income tax. 13 Table of Contents Dividends from Fujian Xiniya and Xiniya (China) Company Limited and dividends on our ADSs or ordinary shares and gains on the sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares may be subject to PRC withholding taxes. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and all of our income is ultimately derived from dividends that are paid by our subsidiaries in the PRC. The prior tax regime specifically exempted withholding taxes on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary to foreign investors. However, under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable to foreign enterprise investors that are non-resident enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place are subject to a 10% withholding tax, which may be reduced if a foreign enterprise investor is eligible for the benefits of a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Pursuant to a tax arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong, companies incorporated in Hong Kong may be subject to withholding taxes at a rate of 5% on dividends they receive from their PRC subsidiaries of which they directly hold at least 25% equity interests. As dividends from our PRC subsidiaries will be paid to us through Xiniya Hong Kong, our Hong Kong subsidiary that owns 100% equity interests in Fujian Xiniya and Xiniya (China) Company Limited, dividends paid to Xiniya Hong Kong may be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 5%. However, on October 27, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, promulgated the Circular on How to Understand and Recognize the “Beneficial Owner” in Tax Treaties, or Circular 601. Circular 601 clarifies that a beneficial owner is a person having actual operations and this person could be an individual, a company or any other entity. Circular 601 expressly excludes a “conduit company” that is established for the purposes of tax avoidance and dividend transfers and is not engaged in actual operations such as manufacturing, sales and management, from being a beneficial owner. It is still unclear how Circular 601 is being implemented in practice by the SAT or its local counterparts. If Xiniya Hong Kong is not deemed to be a beneficial owner of Fujian Xiniya or Xiniya (China) Company Limited, dividends from those entities may be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10% instead of 5%. Moreover, under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, as discussed above, we may be treated as a PRC tax resident enterprise by the PRC taxation authorities. In that case, dividends on our ADSs and ordinary shares and capital gains from sales of our ADSs and ordinary shares realized by foreign shareholders may be regarded as income from “sources within the PRC” and may be subject to a 10% withholding tax, subject to any reduction by an applicable tax treaty. If foreign shareholders are required to pay PRC withholding tax on dividends on our ADSs or ordinary shares or capital gains from any sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, the value of the investment in our ADSs may be materially adversely affected. We may be requested to make up any unpaid contribution to the social security insurance schemes and we and our responsible officers may be subject to a late charge and other penalties. Under the applicable PRC laws and regulations, including the Social Insurance Law promulgated by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress and effective as of July 1, 2011, or the PRC Social Insurance Law, our operating subsidiary in the PRC, Fujian Xiniya, is required to make mandatory contributions to a number of social insurance schemes for its employees who are eligible for such benefits. As advised by our PRC legal advisor, Beijing H&J Law Firm, under the applicable laws and regulations issued by the national and local governments in China, Fujian Xiniya is required to contribute to these social insurance schemes representing, in the aggregate, 29.2% of the wages payable to these employees, comprising contributions to: (i) pension insurance at the rate of 18%; (ii) medical insurance at the rate of 7.5%; (iii) unemployment insurance at the rate of 2%; (iv) work-related injuries insurance at the rate of 1%; and (v) maternity insurance at the rate of 0.7%. The cumulative amount of contributions payable under the social insurance schemes for our employees as of December 31, 2012 was RMB6.2 million ($1.0 million). The PRC Social Insurance Law covers all employing entities within China and all individuals, including flexible employment individuals and migrant workers. However, the relevant laws and regulations were not enforced in a consistent manner across China before the PRC Social Insurance Law came into effect, particularly in relation to migrant workers, who historically did not grant the same level of benefits and protections as urban workers. As a large number of our employees are migrant workers, Fujian Xiniya did not establish a mechanism to make regular contributions to social insurance schemes in accordance with applicable laws and regulations before February 2010. While we believe that we have paid all required social contributions, our PRC legal advisor, Beijing H&J Law Firm, advised that Fujian Xiniya may be ordered by relevant higher government authorities to make additional contributions within a prescribed time limit and that late charges or penalties may apply to any outstanding contributions. As of the date of this annual report, Fujian Xiniya has not been ordered by the relevant government authorities to pay any outstanding contributions to any social insurance schemes. If we are deemed to have been noncompliant with any such laws and regulations or to have failed to make adequate contributions to any social insurance schemes, we may be subject to penalties and negative publicity, and our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations which could limit the legal protections available to investors. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in the PRC. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be cited as reference and have almost no precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of laws, rules and regulations in relation to economic matters, such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations involve some degree of uncertainty, which may lead to additional restrictions and uncertainty for our business and uncertainty with respect to the outcome of any legal action investors may take against us in the PRC. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws. Any changes to such laws and regulations may materially increase our costs and regulatory exposure in complying with them. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, pandemic avian influenza or an increase in the severity of H1N1 influenza or any other widespread public health problem could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of SARS, pandemic avian flu, H1N1 influenza or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2004. Since 2005, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Since 2009, China and other countries and regions have reported several occurrences of H1N1 influenza. Any prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 influenza or any other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, because such incidents could result in quarantines or closures of our offices, logistic facilities and retail outlets travel and transportation restrictions, import and export restrictions and a general slowdown in the PRC economy. In addition, the World Health Organization and the PRC government may recommend or impose other measures that could cause significant interruption to our business operations. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter, which could materially adversely impact our business operations, our reputation, and the trading price of our ADSs. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S.-listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company, our business and the trading price of our ADSs. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. Such allegations may materially adversely impact our business operations, our reputation, and the trading price of our ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. For the period from November 23, 2010 to March 28, 2013, the trading price of our ADSs on NYSE has ranged from a low of $0.96 per ADS to a high of $11.44 per ADS. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, such as the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in the PRC that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of PRC companies have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; • potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and • fluctuations in market prices for our products. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot assure you that these factors will not occur in the future. We believe that we were and may continue to be a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) during such year is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on the quarterly average of our assets for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012, we believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012 and we may continue to be a PFIC in the current taxable year or a future taxable year. However, a separate determination must be made at the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC for such year. In addition, our PFIC status will depend upon the composition of our income and assets from time to time, including the value of our ADSs at any such time. Our PFIC status will also depend, in part, on how, and how quickly, we spend the cash raised in our initial public offering. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not continue to be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2013 or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and additional reporting requirements could apply to that U.S. person, unless such U.S. person makes a timely “mark-to-market” election that may mitigate these consequences. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2012, we had 227,716,692 ordinary shares outstanding, including 85,399,472 ordinary shares represented by 21,349,868 ADSs. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale and, in the case of the ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options, until the later of (i) the first anniversary of the grant date, and (ii) the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. 15 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our currently effective articles of association is our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association which limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2011 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would: • recognize or enforce judgments of courts of the United States obtained against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • entertain original actions brought against us predicated upon certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our currently effective articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 16 Table of Contents The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parities, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American depositary receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive distributions with respect to the underlying ordinary shares if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 17 Table of Contents 