D. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our businesses in China do not comply with PRC regulations relating to insurance brokerage, distribution of mutual fund and asset management plans, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations.” and “Item 4. Information of the Company — C. Organizational Structure.” Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, if a variable interest entity is ultimate controlled by a foreign investor via contractual arrangement, it would be deemed as a foreign investment. Accordingly, for the companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the “negative list”, the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/ are of PRC nationality (either PRC individual, or PRC government and its branches or agencies). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as foreign invested enterprises and any operation in the industry category on the “negative list” without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. The draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, although a few possible options were proffered to solicit comments from the public. Under these options, a company with VIE structures and in the business on the ‘‘negative list’’ at the time of enactment of the new Foreign Investment Law has either the option or obligation to disclose its corporate structure to the authorities, while the authorities, after reviewing the ultimate control structure of the company, may either permit the company to continue its business by maintaining the VIE structure (when the company is deemed ultimately controlled by PRC citizens), or require the company to dispose of its businesses and/or VIE structure based on circumstantial considerations. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the industries in which our variable interest entity operates will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the “negative list” to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final “negative list” mandate further actions, such as MOC market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, or we plan to apply for determination on the PRC investor during the clearance process, we face uncertainties as to whether such clearance or ratification can be timely obtained, or at all. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable foreign invested entities. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with the information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. 31 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of conversion of foreign currencies into Renminbi may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our overseas offering to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign invested enterprises under PRC law, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. For example, loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Due to the restrictions imposed on loans in foreign currencies extended to any PRC domestic companies, we are not likely to make such loans to our variable interest entity, a PRC domestic company. Meanwhile, we are not likely to finance the activities of our variable interest entity by means of capital contributions because that would result in our variable interest entity being converted into a foreign invested company, while foreign invested companies engaged in insurance brokerage are subject to more stringent requirements than PRC domestic enterprises. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated a regulation which restricts the conversion by a foreign invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by setting limitations on the usage of the converted Renminbi. This regulation is generally referred to as SAFE Circular 142. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The usage of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE’s approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. On November 16, 2011, SAFE promulgated the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issues Relating to Further Clarification and Regulation of Certain Capital Account Items under Foreign Exchange Control, or SAFE Circular 45, to further strengthen and clarify its existing regulations on foreign exchange control under SAFE Circular 142. Circular 45 expressly prohibits foreign invested entities, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises such as Noah Rongyao, from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into RMB for the purpose of equity investment, granting certain loans, repayment of inter-company loans, and repayment of bank loans which have been transferred to a third party. Further, SAFE Circular 45 generally prohibits a foreign invested entity from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into RMB for the payment of various types of cash deposits. In August 2014, SAFE issued the Circular on the Relevant Issues Concerning the Launch of Reforming Trial of the Administration Model of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises in Certain Areas, or SAFE Circular 36 which allows a foreign-invested enterprise registered in certain areas with a business scope containing “investment” to use the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital for equity investments within the PRC. On March 30, 2015, SAFE issued the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Reforming the Administrative Approach Regarding the Settlement of the Foreign Exchange Capitals of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 19, which will take effect and replace SAFE Circular 142 from June 1, 2015. Although SAFE Circular 19 allows for the use of RMB converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital for equity investments in the PRC, the restrictions will continue to apply as to foreign-invested enterprises’ use of the converted RMB for purposes beyond the business scope, for entrusted loans or for inter-company RMB loans. If our variable interest entity requires financial support from us or our wholly owned subsidiary in the future and we find it necessary to use foreign currency-denominated capital to provide such financial support, our ability to fund our variable interest entity’s operations will be subject to statutory limits and restrictions, including those described above. In light of the various requirements imposed by of PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE Circular 142, SAFE Circular 45, SAFE Circular 36 or SAFE Circular 19 and other relevant rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or our variable interest entity or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations there. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. From late 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines that had the effect of slowing the growth of credit, which in turn may have slowed the growth of the Chinese economy. In response to the recent global and Chinese economic downturn, the PRC government has promulgated several measures aimed at expanding credit and stimulating economic growth. Since August 2008, the People’s Bank of China, or BOC, has lowered the statutory deposit reserve ratio and lowered benchmark interest rates several times. Beginning in January 2010, the People’s Bank of China started to take measures, including increasing the statutory deposit reserve ratio and raising the benchmark interest rates several times in response to rapid growth of credit in 2009 and 2010. Since January 2011, the People’s Bank of China has continually increased the statutory deposit reserve ratio and raised the benchmark interest rates. The increasing trend eased in December 2011 and the statutory deposit reserve ratio was reduced twice in February and May 2012. In July 2013, the People’s Bank of China revoked the restriction on the loan interest rates of financial institutions. In November 2014, the People’s Bank of China lowered the benchmark interest rates for loans and deposits and lifted the ceiling for deposit rates. Most recently, in March 2015, the People’s Bank of China further lowered the benchmark interest rates for loans and deposits to reduce the financing costs for China’s small and medium-sized enterprises, which could in turn stimulate the growth of the Chinese economy. It is unclear whether PRC economic policies will be effective in stimulating growth, and the PRC government may not be effective in creating stable economic growth in the future. Any slowdown in the economic growth of China could lead to reduced demand for the products we distribute or manage, which could materially and adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. 33 Table of Contents In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. For instance, on January 19, 2015, the MOC published a draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law on its official website for public comments. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in alignment with international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments, and thus the draft Foreign Investment Law will have a far-reaching and significant impact upon foreign investments by fundamentally reshaping the entire PRC foreign investment regulatory regime. See “Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Draft Foreign Investment Law”. There is no definitive timeline for this law to be officially promulgated by the PRC legislature and the current draft may need to undergo significant amendment before the law is finally passed. Accordingly, substantial uncertainties still exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of this new law. As a result, we may not be aware of how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, and could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements, which may have a material adverse effect on our ADS price. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the “big four” PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, with respect to requests for the production of documents, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Starting in 2011 the Chinese affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms, (including our independent registered public accounting firm) were affected by a conflict between US and Chinese law. Specifically, for certain US listed companies operating and audited in mainland China, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain from the Chinese firms access to their audit work papers and related documents. The firms were, however, advised and directed that under China law they could not respond directly to the US regulators on those requests, and that requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China had to be channeled through the CSRC. 34 Table of Contents In late 2012 this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese accounting firms, (including our independent registered public accounting firm). A first instance trial of the proceedings in July 2013 in the SEC’s internal administrative court resulted in an adverse judgment against the firms. The administrative law judge proposed penalties on the firms including a temporary suspension of their right to practice before the SEC, although that proposed penalty did not take effect pending review by the Commissioners of the SEC. On February 6, 2015, before a review by the Commissioner had taken place, the firms reached a settlement with the SEC. Under the settlement, the SEC accepts that future requests by the SEC for the production of documents will normally be made to the CSRC. The firms will receive matching Section 106 requests, and are required to abide by a detailed set of procedures with respect to such requests, which in substance require them to facilitate production via the CSRC. If they fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. Remedies for any future noncompliance could include, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a single firm’s performance of certain audit work, commencement of a new proceeding against a firm, or in extreme cases the resumption of the current proceeding against all four firms. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by changes in China’s political and economic conditions and by China’s foreign exchange policies, among other things. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its decades-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar, and the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. After June 2010, the Renminbi began to appreciate against the U.S. dollar again, although there have been some periods when it has lost value against the U.S. dollar, as it did for example during 2014. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to substantially liberalize its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The reporting and functional currency of our company is the U.S. dollar. However, the functional currency of our consolidated operating subsidiaries and variable interest entity is the Renminbi and substantially all their revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Substantially all of our sales contracts were denominated in Renminbi and substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of earnings from, and the value of. any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 35 Table of Contents Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our company may rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE has promulgated several rules and regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approval from local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. According to the circular promulgated by SAFE which will take effect on June 1, 2015, the qualified banks will bear the authority to register all PRC residents’ direct or indirect offshore investment activities in special purpose vehicles, except that those PRC residents who have failed to register or obtain approval will remain to fall into the jurisdiction of the local SAFE branch and must make their supplementary registration application with the local SAFE branch. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under these foreign exchange rules and regulations, PRC residents are required to complete SAFE registration before contributing their legally owned onshore or offshore assets or equity interest into any special purpose vehicle, or SPV, directly established, or indirectly controlled, by them for the purpose of investment or financing. Such foreign exchange regulations and rules further require that when there is (a) any change to the basic information of the SPV, such as any change relating to its individual PRC resident shareholders, name or operation period or (b) any material change, such as increase or decrease in the share capital held by its individual PRC resident shareholders, a share transfer or exchange of the shares in the SPV, or a merger or split of the SPV, the PRC resident must register such changes on a timely basis. We have requested PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company to our knowledge to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required by these foreign exchange regulations. Such shareholders and beneficial owners have completed their initial registrations, in relation to their ownership in our company, and are in the process of completing amendment registrations, in relation to their subsequent ownership changes in our Company and the establishment of certain subsidiaries of our Company after our initial public offering required by foreign exchange regulations. We cannot assure you, however, that such amendment registration and filing will be duly completed with the local SAFE branch in a timely manner. In addition, we may not be informed of the identities of all the PRC residents holding direct or indirect interests in our company, and we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will make, obtain or update any applicable registrations or approvals required by these foreign exchange regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth in these regulations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans from, our company, or prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents However, as there is uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of these foreign exchange regulations with other approval requirements, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of share options held by our employees who are “domestic individuals” may subject such employee or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by the SAFE in February 2012, or the Stock Incentive Plan Rules, “domestic individuals” (both PRC residents and non-PRC residents who reside in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year, excluding the foreign diplomatic personnel and representatives of international organizations) participating in any stock incentive plan of an overseas listed company according to its stock incentive plan are required, through qualified PRC agents which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the stock incentive plan. We and our employees, who are “domestic individuals” and have been granted share options, or the PRC optionees, became subject to the Stock Incentive Plan Rules when our company became an overseas listed company upon the completion of our initial public offering. We and our employees have made registration as required under the Stock Incentive Plan Rules and intend to continue making such registration on an on-going basis and complete all the requisite procedures in accordance with the Stock Incentive Plan Rules. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with the Individual Foreign Exchange Rule and the Stock Incentive Plan Rules, we and/or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. In addition, the General Administration of Taxation has issued a few circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their stock options. If our employees fail to pay and we fail to withhold their income taxes, we may face sanctions imposed by tax authorities or any other PRC government authorities. Furthermore, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Individual Foreign Exchange Rule and the Stock Incentive Plan Rules. The discontinuation of any of the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. During the five years ended December 31, 2014, our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity and its subsidiaries were granted governmental financial subsidies. Government agencies may decide to reduce or eliminate subsidies at any time. We cannot assure you of the continued availability of the government incentives and subsidies currently enjoyed by some of our affiliated entities in China, including our variable interest entity, our PRC subsidiaries and their subsidiaries. The discontinuation of these governmental incentives and subsidies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC tax under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC income tax purposes, such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders. Pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive, directly or indirectly, from our wholly foreign-owned PRC subsidiaries. Since there is currently no such tax treaty between China and the Cayman Islands, dividends we directly receive from our wholly foreign-owned PRC subsidiaries will generally be subject to a 10% withholding tax. In addition, under the Arrangement between the mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Tax Evasion on Income, where a Hong Kong resident enterprise which is considered a non-PRC tax resident enterprise directly holds at least 25% of a PRC enterprise, the withholding tax rate in respect to the payment of dividends by such PRC enterprise to such Hong Kong resident enterprise is reduced to 5% from a standard rate of 10%, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. Accordingly, Noah Insurance (Hong Kong) Limited, or Noah HK, may be able to enjoy the 5% withholding tax rate for the dividends it receives from Noah Technology and Noah Xingguang respectively, if they satisfy the conditions prescribed in relevant tax rules and regulations, and obtain the approvals as required. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. If Noah HK is considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purposes of the tax arrangement, any dividends paid to them by our wholly foreign-owned PRC subsidiaries directly would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to a rate of 10%. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Tax—Dividend Withholding Tax”. Furthermore, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax on its global income at the rate of 25%. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Tax—PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” We do not believe that Noah Holdings Limited or any of its subsidiaries outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for the year ended December 31, 2014. However, the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term “de facto management body”. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Noah Holdings Limited or any of its subsidiaries outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes, they would be subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on their global income. In addition, if Noah Holdings Limited is considered a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes, we may be required to withhold a 10% withholding tax from dividends we pay to our shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises, including the holders of our ADSs. Furthermore, non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders (including our ADS holders) may be subject to a 10% PRC tax on gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is treated as sourced from within the PRC. It is unclear whether our non-PRC individual shareholders (including our ADS holders) would be subject to any PRC tax on dividends or gains obtained by such non-PRC individual shareholders in the event we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise. If any PRC tax were to apply to such dividends or gains, it would generally apply at a rate of 20% unless a reduced rate is available under an applicable tax treaty. However, it is also unclear whether our non-PRC shareholders would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their country of tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise. If Noah Holdings Limited is required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold such PRC income tax, your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents We face uncertainties with respect to the application of the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises. The State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, has issued several rules and notices to tighten the scrutiny over acquisition transactions in recent years, including the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, or SAT Circular 698, the Notice on Several Issues Regarding the Income Tax of Non-PRC Resident Enterprises promulgated issued in March 28, 2011, or SAT Circular 24, and the Notice on Certain Corporate Income Tax Matters on Indirect Transfer of Properties by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued in February 2015, or SAT Circular 7. Pursuant to these rules and notices, if a non-PRC resident enterprise indirectly transfers PRC taxable properties, referring to properties of an establishment or a place in the PRC, real estate properties in the PRC or equity investments in a PRC tax resident enterprise, by disposition of equity interest in an overseas non-public holding company, without a reasonable commercial purpose and resulting in the avoidance of PRC enterprise income tax, such indirect transfer should be deemed as a direct transfer of PRC taxable properties and gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to the PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 7 has listed several factors to be taken into consideration by tax authorities in determining whether an indirect transfer has a reasonable commercial purpose. However, despite of these factors, an indirect transfer satisfying all the following criteria shall be deemed to lack reasonable commercial purpose and be taxable under the PRC laws: (i) 75% or more of the equity value of the intermediary enterprise being transferred is derived directly or indirectly from the PRC taxable properties; (ii) at any time during the one year period before the indirect transfer, 90% or more of the asset value of the intermediary enterprise (excluding cash) is comprised directly or indirectly of investments in the PRC, or 90% or more of its income is derived directly or indirectly from the PRC; (iii) the functions performed and risks assumed by the intermediary enterprise and any of its subsidiaries that directly or indirectly hold the PRC taxable properties are limited and are insufficient to prove their economic substance; and (iv) the foreign tax payable on the gain derived from the indirect transfer of the PRC taxable properties is lower than the potential PRC tax on the direct transfer of such assets. Nevertheless, the indirect transfer falling into the scope of the safe harbor under SAT Circular 7 may not be subject to PRC tax and such safe harbor includes qualified group restructuring, public market trading and tax treaty exemptions. Under SAT Circular 7, the entities or individuals obligated to pay the transfer price to the transferor shall be the withholding agent and shall withhold the PRC tax from the transfer price. If the withholding agent fails to do so, the transferor shall report to and pay the PRC tax to the PRC tax authorities. In case neither the withholding agent nor the transferor complies with the obligations under SAT Circular 7, other than imposing penalties such as late payment interest on the transferors, the tax authority may also hold the withholding agent liable and impose a penalty of 50% to 300% of the unpaid tax on the withholding agent, provided that such penalty imposed on the withholding agent may be reduced or waived if the withholding agent has submitted the relevant materials in connection with the indirect transfer to the PRC tax authorities in accordance with SAT Circular 7. However, as these rules and notices are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation on the implementation of the same, there is no assurance that the tax authorities will not apply SAT Circular 698, SAT Circular 24 and SAT Circular 7 to previous investments by non-PRC resident investors in our company or our pre-listing restructuring, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our existing non-PRC resident investors may be at risk of being taxed under these rules and notices and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with or to establish that we should not be taxed under such rules and notices, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-PRC resident investors’ investments in us. We have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving corporate structures, and historically our shares were transferred by certain then shareholders to our current shareholders. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing obligations on us or require us to provide assistance for the investigation of PRC tax authorities with respect thereto. Any PRC tax imposed on a transfer of our shares or any adjustment of such gains would cause us to incur additional costs and may have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. 39 Table of Contents The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law, Social Insurance Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective in January 2008 and was subsequently amended in July 2013. The Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers to dismiss employees, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign labor contract with unlimited term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts subject to certain conditions or after the employee has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. The employer also has to pay compensation to an employee if the employer terminates an unlimited-term labor contract. Such compensation is also required when the employer refuses to renew a labor contract that has expired, unless it is the employee who refuses to extend the expired contract. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective in January 2008 and the Implementation Rules on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective in September 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who are deprived of such vacation time by employers shall be compensated with three times their regular salaries for each of such vacation days, unless it is the employees who waive such vacation days in writing. Since our success largely depends on our qualified employees, the implementation of the Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses. In the event that we decide to lay off a large number of employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, enterprises in China are required by PRC laws and regulations, including the Social Insurance Law, to participate in a housing provident fund for employees and in certain employee benefit plans, including social insurance funds like a pension plan, a medical insurance plan, an unemployment insurance plan, a work-related injury insurance plan and a maternity insurance plan. Employers are required to contribute to the funds or plans in amounts equal to certain percentages of employees’ salaries, including bonuses and allowances, as specified from time to time by the local governments in places where they operate their businesses or where they are located. We cannot assure you that our employment practices do not or will not violate these labor-related laws and regulations. If we are deemed to have been non-compliant with any such laws and regulations or to have failed to make adequate contributions to any social insurance schemes, we may be subject to penalties and negative publicity, and our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. The trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$12.35 to US$25.60 in 2014. This was partly because of broad market and industry factors, such as the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or declining financial results of other companies based in China that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of other Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. The recent ongoing administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they refused to hand over documents to the SEC for ongoing investigations into certain China-based companies, occurs at a time when accounting scandals have eroded investor appetite for China-based companies. In addition, any other negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that may or may not relate to our operating performance, which may have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, the market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our clients or our competitors; 40 Table of Contents • announcements of studies and reports relating to the quality of our products and services or those of our competitors; • changes in the performance or market valuations of other companies that provide wealth management services; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the wealth management services industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of our senior management; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; • release or expiry of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. Sales of our wealth management products, asset management products and internet finance products and services are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility in the price of our ADSs. Our revenues, operating expenses and operating cash flow have historically been lower during the first quarter than other quarters of our fiscal year. This results from the relatively low number of client meetings and other events during the Chinese New Year holiday period, which falls within the first quarter of each year. In addition, because fund raising activities gradually pick up after the Chinese New Year holiday, we recognize a significant portion of revenues derived from newly launched wealth management products, asset management products and internet finance services in March, which in turn increases our accounts receivables in the first quarter. Such accounts receivables have historically been collected in the second quarter. Because of these factors, we may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations, which in turn may result in volatility in the price of our ADSs. Our board of directors has complete discretion as whether to distribute dividends, therefore you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source of future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends, subject to our articles of association and Cayman Islands law. Our shareholders by ordinary resolution may declare a dividend, but no dividend may exceed the amount recommended by our board of directors. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Although we declared an annual cash dividend for 2011 and 2012, we may not declare any dividend in the future, and even if we do so, the future dividend payments may be less than 2011 and 2012. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source of future dividend income. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain their current price. 41 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of April 15, 2015, we had 28,107,561 ordinary shares outstanding, including 15,695,000 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. Except for the restricted ADSs representing 4,095,713 ordinary shares held by affiliates of Sequoia Capital China, the rest of our ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding are available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. Certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the form of ADS in the public market could adversely impact the trading price of the notes and cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Provisions of our convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. In February 2015, we completed an issuance of US$80 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible notes. The convertible notes bear interest at a rate of 3.5% per annum from the issuance date and mature in February 2020 and are convertible, at the holders’ option, at an initial conversion price of US$23.03 per ADS, subject to adjustments. Certain provisions of our convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. The indentures for these convertible notes define a “fundamental change” to include, among other things: (1) any person or group gaining control of our company; (2) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our ordinary shares or the ADSs as a result of which these securities would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets; (3) the adoption of any plan relating to the dissolution or liquidation of our company; or (4) our ADSs ceasing to be listed on a major U.S. national securities exchange. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of these notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes of at least US$15,000,000 or such lesser amount then held by the holders. In the event of a fundamental change, we may also be required to issue additional ADSs upon conversion of our convertible notes. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 42 Table of Contents The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entity. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. We have been advised by Maples and Calder, our counsel as to Cayman Islands law, that although there is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits, through an action on the foreign judgment commenced in Grand Court of the Cayman Islands, based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign money judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be (i) in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty or similar fiscal or revenue obligations, (ii) inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, (iii) impeachable on the grounds of fraud or (iv) obtained in a manner, nor be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands Court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders/ holders of our ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 43 Table of Contents Our memorandum and articles of association contain provisions that could discourage a third party from seeking to obtain control of our company, which could adversely affect the interests of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs by limiting their opportunities to sell them at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants to our board of directors the authority to establish and issue from time to time one or more series of preferred shares, and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preferred shares, without any further vote or action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series which may be greater than the rights of our ordinary shares. The provisions could have the effect of depriving holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs of the opportunity to sell their shares or ADSs at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. If we are considered PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law, interest and dividends paid to non-resident holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax and gains realized by non-resident holders on sale of ADSs or ordinary shares may be subject to PRC income tax. We may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise. If we were treated as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends payable to non-PRC resident enterprise holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and therefore may be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless an applicable income tax treaty provides otherwise. In addition, capital gains realized by non-PRC resident enterprise holders upon the disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and therefore may be subject to 10% income tax unless an applicable income tax treaty provides otherwise. It is unclear whether our non-PRC resident individual holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs would be subject to any PRC tax on interest, dividends or capital gains obtained by such non-PRC individual holders in the event we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise. If any PRC tax were to apply to such dividends or capital gains, it would generally apply at a rate of 20% unless a reduced rate is available under an applicable tax treaty. However, it is also unclear whether such non-PRC holders would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their country of tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company under U.S. tax law, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation, such as our company, will be a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. Although the application of these rules is unclear in many important respects, based on the price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014, we believe that we were not a PFIC for that year. However, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, does not issue rulings with respect to PFIC status, and there can be no assurance that the IRS, or a court, will agree with our determination. For example, because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules, it is possible that the IRS may successfully challenge our classification of certain income and assets as non-passive, which may result in our company being treated as a PFIC. If we are treated as a PFIC with respect to a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) for any year during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and related reporting requirements. For example, if we are treated as a PFIC with respect to a U.S. Holder, such U.S. Holder would generally be taxed at the higher ordinary income rates, rather than the lower capital gain rates, if such U.S. Holder disposes of ADSs or ordinary shares at a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on such U.S. Holder’s gain would be increased by an interest charge. Also, if we are treated as a PFIC with respect to a U.S. Holder in any taxable year, such U.S. Holder would generally not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate (if any) with respect to any dividend distribution that such U.S. Holder may receive from us in that year or in the following years. Certain elections may be available, however, that would mitigate these adverse tax consequences to varying degrees. 44 Table of Contents We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2015, or for any future taxable year. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes or where the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares declines, our risk of becoming a PFIC may substantially increase. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any financing activities. In the event that we determine that we are not a PFIC in 2015 or in a future taxable year, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will agree with our determination. Further, although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our consolidated affiliated entities as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with them, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated, U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of these entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we would likely be treated as a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally (unless you make a valid mark-to-market election with respect to the ADSs as discussed below) will continue to be treated as a PFIC with respect to such U.S. Holder for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares unless we cease to be a PFIC and the U.S. Holder makes a “deemed sale” election with respect to the ADSs or ordinary shares, as applicable (in which case, special rules apply). You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations and Rules.” The U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act could subject us to certain new information reporting and withholding requirements. The United States has passed the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, that imposes a new reporting regime and, potentially, a 30% withholding tax on certain payments made to certain non-U.S. entities. In general, the 30% withholding tax applies to certain payments made to a non-U.S. financial institution unless such institution is treated as deemed compliant or enters into an agreement with the US Treasury to report, on an annual basis, information with respect to certain interests in, and accounts maintained by, the institution to the extent such interests or accounts are held by certain U.S. persons and by certain non-U.S. entities that are wholly or partially owned by certain U.S. persons and to withhold on certain payments. The 30% withholding tax also generally applies to certain payments made to a non-financial non-U.S. entity that does not qualify under certain exemptions unless such entity either (i) certifies that such entity does not have any “substantial United States owners” or (ii) provides certain information regarding the entity’s “substantial United States owners.” An intergovernmental agreement between the United States and another country may also modify these requirements. The Cayman Islands has entered into a Model 1 intergovernmental agreement with the United States, which gives effect to the automatic tax information exchange requirements of FATCA, and a similar intergovernmental agreement with the United Kingdom. The Company will be required to comply with the Cayman Islands Tax Information Authority Law (2014 Revision) (as amended) together with regulations and guidance notes made pursuant to such Law that give effect to the intergovernmental agreements with the United States and the United Kingdom. We do not believe FATCA will have a material impact on our business or operations, but because FATCA is particularly complex and the intergovernmental agreement with the PRC, though agreed to in substance, has not been published, we cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by this legislation in the future. 