D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Industry and Business Our future growth depends on our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants. Our future growth depends on our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants. We opened 38, 50 and 72 new restaurants in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, and plan to add approximately 70 further restaurants by the end of 2012. We may not be able to open new restaurants as quickly as planned. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and our expected results. In researching new restaurant sites, we may be faced with intense competition for new restaurant sites in our target markets and increased lease costs. Even if we open additional restaurants as planned, these new restaurants may neither be profitable nor have results comparable to our existing restaurants for a period of time. This growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each additional restaurant may cause our operating results and profits to fluctuate. In addition, if we open new restaurants in our existing geographic markets, the sales performance and customer traffic of our existing restaurants near new restaurants may decline as a result. This may in turn adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated growth in revenue and profitability of our entire restaurant chain. 5 Table of Contents Our future growth also depends on our ability to increase existing restaurant sales. While future sales growth will depend in part on our plans for new restaurant openings, deeper penetration into existing geographic markets and the sales of existing restaurants will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be critical factors affecting our revenue and profit. Our ability to increase existing restaurant sales depends in part on our ability to successfully implement our initiatives to increase turnover, such as increasing the number of food deliveries and the number of menu selections. It is possible that we will not achieve our targeted existing restaurant sales growth or that existing restaurant sales could decrease, or that we will not achieve our targeted level of expansion within existing geographic markets. If any of this were to happen, sales and profits growth may be materially and adversely affected. Our historical financial and operating results are not indicative of future performance; our financial and operating results are difficult to forecast. Although our founders owned and operated restaurants prior to our establishment in August 2007, we have experienced significant growth only since 2008, after we raised funds through the issuance of Series A preferred shares to two international private equity investors in September 2007. Therefore, we have a relatively short operating history as a corporation and our historical results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our financial and operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the future price of our ADSs to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary from period to period in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, regulations or actions pertaining to quick service restaurants in China and our ability to control the cost of revenues and operating expenses. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on them to predict the future performance of our ADSs. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to seasonality and other factors. Our overall results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period because of several factors, including: the timing of new restaurant openings and the amounts of associated pre-opening costs and expenses; operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often substantially greater during the first few months of operations; revenue loss and renovation expenses associated with the temporary closure of existing restaurants for refurbishment; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and any losses incurred on restaurant closures; and fluctuations in food and commodity prices. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and comparison of different periods may not be meaningful. Our results for a given fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other fiscal period. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks. We plan to open new restaurants in markets where we have little or no operating experience. In 2011, we opened our second and third restaurant in Beijing and our first restaurant in Yunnan Province. These and other markets in which we open new restaurants may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns from our existing markets. As a result, any new restaurants we open in those markets may be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with our brand and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activities than we originally planned. We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who share our business philosophy and culture. Restaurants opened in new markets may also have lower average sales or higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than restaurants in existing markets. In addition, we may have difficulty in finding reliable suppliers or distributors with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards in the new markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer than expected to ramp up and reach, or may never reach, expected sales and profit levels, thereby affecting our overall profitability. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to capitalize on new business opportunities and our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth, and further expansion may place significant strain on our management and resources. We have increased the number of our restaurants in China from 9 as of December 31, 2007 to 199 as of December 31, 2011, and we plan to continue to expand our operations in different geographic locations in China. This further expansion may place substantial demands on our management and our operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain consistent food and service quality and preserve our corporate culture to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deterioration, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our food or service. To manage and support our growth, we must improve our existing operational and administrative systems as well as our financial and management controls. Our continued success also depends on our ability to recruit, train and retain additional qualified management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We also need to continue to manage our relationships with our suppliers and customers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management attention and efforts and require significant additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage any future growth effectively and efficiently, and any failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business is affected by changes in consumer taste and discretionary spending. The consumer food services industry is affected by consumer taste and perceptions. Although we have a dedicated product development team who constantly updates our menu to adapt to changes in seasons, dining trends and shifts in consumer taste and nutritional trends, we cannot assure you that we would continue to be able to maintain our menu to suit changing popular taste, nutritional trends and general customer demands in China. In addition, if prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, to a significant extent, on discretionary customer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or prolonged periods of high unemployment rates. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending in China may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Our restaurants are susceptible to risks in relation to rental increases and fluctuations, inflexible long-term lease agreements and unexpected land acquisitions, building closures or demolitions. As we lease the property for substantially all of our restaurants, we have significant exposure to the retail rental market in China. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, our restaurant rental expenses amounted to approximately RMB17.9 million, RMB38.5 million, RMB64.3 million and RMB96.2 million ($15.3 million), respectively, representing 7.8%, 7.8%, 8.6% and 9.4% of our total revenues during the respective periods. Since rental expenses represent a significant portion of our total operating expenses, our profitability may be adversely affected by any substantial increase in the rental expenses of our restaurant premises. 7 Table of Contents The majority of our lease agreements for our restaurant sites have an initial lease term of between 5 to 10 years and may contain an option to extend; a number of these lease agreements expire each year. A large number of lease agreements provide that the rent will increase at a fixed rate or by a fixed amount and certain leases require contingent rent, determined as a percentage of sales, as defined by the terms of the applicable lease agreement, which could result in rents being above fair market value. When a lease agreement expires, the lessor has the right to review and modify the terms and conditions of the lease agreement and we have to negotiate the terms of renewal with that lessor. There is no assurance that we would be able to renew the relevant lease agreements on terms acceptable to us or to lease premises at prime locations on comparable and favorable terms, particularly in respect of rental charges. In the event that we need to close down a restaurant at the end of a lease, our business may be disrupted and we may incur extra costs to relocate, and our business operations and financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. Because our lease agreements have fixed lease terms, these lease agreements expose us to the risk of having to make rental payments for fixed periods of time in spite of failure of business or other unforeseen events that may occur before each lease term expires. In the event that we need to close down a restaurant before the end of a lease, we may be obligated to continue paying rent for the rest of the lease term and our business operations and financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the PRC government has the statutory power to acquire any land in the PRC. In the event of any compulsory acquisition of any of the properties in which our restaurants or facilities are situated for redevelopment, the amount of compensation to be awarded to us may not be based on the fair market value of such property but may be assessed on the basis prescribed in the relevant legislation. In such event, we will be forced to relocate to other locations, thus affecting our business operations. Our business depends significantly on the market recognition of our “ CSC” brand, and if we are not able to maintain or enhance our brand recognition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Since 2008, we have successfully built up our “ CSC” brand to represent delicious, everyday Chinese food. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the “ CSC” brand is important to maintaining our competitive advantage. However, our ability to maintain our brand recognition depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends to a large extent on our ability to further develop and maintain our distinctive combination of delicious menu offerings, affordable prices and clean dining environments throughout our restaurant chain, as well as on our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to do so, the value of our brand or image will be diminished and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. For instance, in November 2011, we attracted a short period of negative press coverage related to the sanitary conditions in one of our restaurants in Chengdu, and sales in several of our Chengdu area restaurants dipped temporarily. We addressed the sanitary conditions and implemented a targeted short-term sales promotion program involving discounted food pricing which put pressure on our overall gross margin. Although we believe our brand and reputation were not materially affected by these events, we cannot assure you that any future such events will not have a material adverse effect on our brand, reputation, business or results of operations. As we continue to grow in size, expand our food offerings and services and extend our geographic reach, maintaining quality and consistency may be more difficult and we cannot assure you that customers’ confidence in our brand name will not be diminished. In addition, unauthorized use of our trademarks, trade name and trade secrets by unrelated third parties may damage our reputation and brand. However, preventing trademark and trade name infringement, particularly in China, is difficult, costly and time-consuming. The measures we take to protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, which presently include relying on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and may potentially include taking court action against anyone that infringes on our trademark and trade name, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use by third parties. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights, our brand name may be harmed, and our business may suffer materially. 8 Table of Contents We generate a majority of our revenues from Chongqing municipality and Sichuan Province in China. Any event negatively affecting the consumer food services industry in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and results of operations. We generated 94.8%, 93.4%, 92.3% and 91.9% of our revenues in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, from our restaurants in Chongqing municipality and Sichuan province in China. We expect these markets to continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. If either Chongqing municipality or Sichuan Province experiences an event negatively affecting its consumer food services industry, such as a local economic downturn, a natural disaster, a contagious disease outbreak or a terrorist attack, or if the local authorities adopt regulations that place additional restrictions or burdens on us or on our industry in general, our overall business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to instances of food-borne illnesses, health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business is susceptible to food-borne illnesses, health epidemics and other outbreaks. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and distributors outside of our control and the risk of multiple locations instead of a single restaurant being affected. New illnesses resistant to any precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, such as mad-cow disease, that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. Reports in the media of instances of food-borne illnesses could, if highly publicized, negatively affect our industry overall and us in particular, impacting our restaurant sales, forcing the closure of some of our restaurants and conceivably having significant impact on our results of operations. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness in fact were not spread by our restaurants. Furthermore, other illnesses, such as hand, foot and mouth disease or avian influenza, could adversely affect the supply of some of our food products and significantly increase our costs. We also face risks related to health epidemics. Past occurrences of epidemics or pandemics, depending on their scale of occurrence, have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in China. In June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of H1N1 influenza to be a pandemic. An outbreak of any epidemics or pandemics in China, especially in the areas where we have restaurants, may result in quarantines, temporary closures of our restaurants, travel restrictions or the sickness or death of key personnel and our customers. Any of the above may cause material disruptions to our operations, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our senior management team, in particular one of our founders, Ms. Hong Li, who has been our leader since our inception. Ms. Li currently serves as our chairman and chief executive officer. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In 2011 and 2012, certain of our executive officers left our company for personal reasons. Competition for experienced management personnel in the quick service restaurant sector is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose trade secrets and know-how as a result. Furthermore, if other businesses affiliated with our founders compete with us for qualified restaurant managers and employees, potential premises for restaurant operations and other resources, it could materially and adversely affect our business operations and expansion plans. Any actual or perceived competition from our founders’ outside businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and investors’ confidence in us. Our founders and executive officers have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with us. If any disputes arise between any of our founders and executive officers and us, it may be difficult to enforce these agreements against these individuals. 9 Table of Contents Events that disrupt the operations of any of our restaurants, such as fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters, may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fires, floods, earthquakes, power failures and power shortages, hardware and software failures, computer viruses, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. Fires, floods, earthquakes and terrorist attacks may lead to evacuations and other disruptions in our restaurant operations, which may prevent us from providing quality food and service to customers, thereby affecting our business and damaging our reputation. Any such event could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Reports of incidents of food tampering could materially damage our reputation and reduce our restaurant sales. The consumer food services industry has long been subject to the threat of food tampering by suppliers, employees or customers, such as the addition of foreign objects into the food that we sell. Reports, whether true or not, of injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of restaurants, including restaurant chains like us, and could affect us in the future as well. Instances of food tampering, even those occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors, could result in negative publicity about the overall consumer food services industry and adversely affect our sales on a local, regional or national basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in the cost of ingredients used in our restaurants may lead to declines in our margins and operating results. The founding philosophy of our business is to offer delicious, everyday Chinese food to average Chinese consumers for an affordable price. Any rise in our costs, particularly a rise in the cost of the ingredients we use, may lead to declines in our margins and operating costs. The cost of ingredients we use in our restaurants depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Food ingredients represented approximately 46.1%, 44.7%, 44.2% and 44.8% of our restaurant revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our critical food ingredients. If we are not able to obtain requisite quantities of quality ingredients at commercially reasonable prices, our ability to provide the menu items that are central to our business would be adversely affected. In addition, the PRC food price index increased by 14.3% from December 2010 to December 2011, which partially contributed the increase in our costs in food ingredients. If the cost of ingredients that we use in our restaurants increases in the future and we cannot pass these cost increases onto our customers, our operating margins may decrease. In addition, the Chinese government has promulgated price intervention regulations under which temporary measures may be taken to control price increase or decrease of certain material commodities which include a number of ingredients, such as grain, food oil, pork and eggs, that are important to our business. Such price control measures will have direct effects on our cost of relevant ingredients. The measures that prevent the prices of ingredients from falling will keep our cost of relevant ingredients at a higher level than it would be under free market conditions. Although generally we may benefit from the measures that control price increases, which keep our ingredients cost from rising, there is no guarantee for how long and to what extent such measures may be implemented, or whether such measures will effectively control price increases in the long run. For example, there is a possibility that measures controlling price increases may frustrate the relevant suppliers and discourage production, in which case the supply of the affected ingredients may decrease and our business may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new restaurant locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends substantially on its location. Given the rate of urban construction in China, there can be no assurance that our current restaurant locations will continue to be attractive as neighborhoods or demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could deteriorate in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in these locations. If we cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices, our ability to effect our growth strategy will be adversely affected. In addition, some of our less profitable or unsuccessful restaurants may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases, so that even if we decide to close such restaurants, we may nonetheless be required to perform our obligations under such leases or pay penalties for terminating the leases, which will increase our operating costs. Our success depends on our ability to compete with our major competitors. The consumer food services industry is intensely competitive and we compete in China with many well established food services companies on the basis of price, service, location and food quality. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of individual restaurants and restaurant chains that range from independent local operators to well-capitalized Chinese and international quick service restaurant companies, including international restaurant chains such as McDonald’s and Kentucky Fried Chicken, or KFC, all of which have significant presence in many parts of China. As our competitors expand their operations, through acquisitions or otherwise, we expect competition to intensify. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing, marketing and the consumer food services industry in general better than we can. The consumer food services industry has few non-economic barriers to entry, and therefore new competitors, especially small local restaurant operators, may emerge at any time. If our existing or future competitors offer items that are better priced or more appealing to local customer tastes or if a competitor increases the number of restaurants it operates in one of our key markets, our customers will be diverted. In addition, if our competitors offer financial incentives to personnel, ingredients suppliers or prospective sellers of real estate in excess of what we offer, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with other restaurant chains and other retail businesses for quality site locations and hourly employees. Failure to comply with government regulations relating to the consumer food services industry, fire safety, food hygiene and environmental protection could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is subject to various compliance and operational requirements under PRC laws. The failure of any of our restaurants to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including laws governing our relationship with our employees, may incur substantial fines and penalties from the relevant PRC government authorities. Each restaurant in our chain must hold a basic business license issued by the local government authorities and must have restaurant operations within the business scope of its business license. Under PRC regulations, any business operating without a valid business license may be subject to fines of up to RMB100,000 ($15,888), confiscation of gains from the business and/or closure of the business. Our business is also subject to various regulations that affect various aspects of our business in the cities in which we operate, including fire safety, food hygiene and environmental protection. Our restaurants must obtain various licenses and permits under these regulations. Some of our restaurants have not obtained all the requisite licenses and permits. We are making diligent efforts to obtain as many of the missing permits as possible. Although we have not been subject to any material fines or other penalties in relation to any non-compliance in the past, if we fail to cure such non-compliance in a timely manner, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of the gains derived from the related restaurants or the suspension of operations of the restaurants that do not have all the requisite licenses and permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. See also “Item 4.B — Business Overview — Regulation—Regulations on the Food Safety and Licensing Requirements for Consumer Food Services” and “Item 4.B — Business Overview — Regulation—Regulations on Fire Prevention.” 11 Table of Contents We depend on our dedicated and capable employees, and if we are not able to continue to hire, train and retain qualified employees or if labor costs increase, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our chain restaurant operations, including restaurant managers, cooks and kitchen assistants. We cannot assure you that we would be able to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our business. Any material increase in employee turnover rates in our existing restaurants and any failure to recruit skilled personnel and to retain key staff due to factors such as failure to keep up with market average employee salary levels may make our growth strategy difficult to implement. Any increased labor costs due to factors like competition, increased minimum wage requirements and employee benefits would adversely impact our operating costs. Any of the above would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have granted and will continue to grant restricted shares, stock options and other share-based compensation, which may materially impact our results of operations. We adopted our share incentive plan in December 2009. The share incentive plan permits us to grant stock options, restricted shares and restricted share units to our employees, directors and consultants representing the right to acquire up to a total of 10,000,000 ordinary shares. As a result of these option grants and potential future grants under the plan, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur share-based compensation expenses. We had share-based compensation expenses of RMB15.8 million ($2.5 million) for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, there was RMB54.9 million ($8.3 million) in total unrecognized compensation expenses related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under our share incentive plan. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation awards granted under our share incentive plan may materially impact our future results of operations. However, if we limit the size or number of grants under our share incentive plan to minimize the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 74.44% of our outstanding shares as of April 1, 2011. These shareholders, if they acted together, would control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions, and they may not act in the best interests of our minority shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and what effects it may have. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in higher oil prices and significant market volatility, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. 12 Table of Contents We have limited insurance coverage. As of December 31, 2011, we have obtained insurance policies that we believe are customary for similar companies in China. We currently have in place property insurance, business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance and money insurance for many of our restaurants currently in operation. For more details, see “Item 4.D — Property, Plants and Equipment — Insurance.” However, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that may occur, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation. If we were held liable for amounts and claims exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or outside the scope of our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our legal right to lease certain properties could be challenged by third parties. We do not own most of the properties on which we operate our restaurants. Instead, our business model relies on leases or subleases from third parties. Some of the properties we lease from third parties have been subject to mortgages which were created at the time the leases were signed. In such circumstances, and where consent to the lease was not obtained from the mortgage holder, the lease may not be binding on the transferee of the property if the mortgage holders foreclose on the mortgage and transfer the property. In addition, some of our lessors have not provided us their title certificates for the properties we lease or proof of authorizations from the property owners to sublease the properties to us. If third parties who purport to be property owners challenge our right to lease these properties, we could be subject to potential disputes with them. Such disputes, whether resolved in our favor or not, may divert management attention or disrupt our business operations. Failure to comply with lease registration and other compliance requirements under PRC law may subject our lessors or us to fines or other penalties that may negatively affect our ability to operate our restaurants. We and those from whom we lease properties are subject to a number of land- and property-related legal requirements. For instance, under PRC law, all lease agreements are required to be registered with the local housing bureau. However, we and our lessors had not obtained registrations from the relevant authorities for the majority of our leased restaurant properties. Although the lack of registration with a governmental authority will not invalidate a lease agreement in a PRC court, it may expose both our lessors and us to monetary fines. Such fines may, in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, based on the specific land use right certificates and property ownership certificates currently held by our lessors, certain properties we lease are not designated for commercial service purposes Failure to ensure that the properties we lease are operated in compliance with their designated use may subject our lessors or us to various administrative actions, including fines or suspension of our restaurant operations. Before entering into any new lease agreement, we normally conduct legal and regulatory due diligence investigations to confirm that our intended use of the property is consistent with the land-use regulations and the lease arrangement is in compliance with applicable PRC regulations. Also, we intend to require our lessors to indemnify us for related losses arising from any non-compliance on the part of our lessors in any of our future new lease agreements. However, if we are not adequately indemnified by the lessors for our losses or the fines or other penalties imposed on us for non-compliance with land- and property-related PRC laws and regulations, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, and our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to uncertainties. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary depending on the timing of our new restaurant openings, investments in or acquisitions of new restaurants from third parties and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek additional financing by selling additional equity or debt securities or obtaining a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that may, among other things, restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. Servicing such debt obligations could also be burdensome to our operations. If we fail to service the debt obligations or are unable to comply with such debt covenants, we could be in default under the relevant debt obligations and our liquidity and financial conditions may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of businesses in the consumer food services industry; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in the consumer food services industry in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to sell debt or additional equity securities, reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow or defer planned expenditures. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Measures to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, stimulus measures designed to help China weather the recent global financial crisis may contribute to higher inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, certain operating costs and expenses, such as employee compensation and office operating expenses, may increase as a result of higher inflation. In August 2010, November 2010, March 2011 and June 2011, we raised the wages of our restaurant staff and management. Such wage raises have had and will continue to exert pressure on our operating margin. Further, because a substantial portion of our assets consists of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, high inflation could significantly reduce the value and purchasing power of these assets. In addition, high inflation may reduce the disposable income of our customers or dampen their willingness to dine at restaurants. 14 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If preferential tax treatments become unavailable or if the calculation of our tax liability is successfully challenged by the PRC tax authorities, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Chinese government has provided various tax incentives to our subsidiaries in China. These incentives include reduced enterprise income tax rates. For example, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, the statutory enterprise income tax rate is 25%. Chongqing Xinghong Growing Rich Management Co., Ltd., the Chongqing subsidiary of CSC China, received preferential tax status for the years 2008 through 2010 from the State Tax Bureau in Chongqing, under which it paid enterprise income tax, or EIT, at a rate of 15%. However, the PRC National Audit Office issued a letter in May, 2011, stating that several restaurant companies, including Chongqing Xinghong Growing Rich Management Co., Ltd., should not have been granted preferential tax status in 2009. Based on this letter, we concluded that the standard tax rate should also apply for the years 2008 and 2010, and recognized a one-time tax liability of RMB17.8 million ($2.8 million) related to the change for 2008, 2009 and 2010 during the quarter ended June 30, 2011. Of the total additional enterprise income tax, or EIT, RMB6.4 million ($1.0 million) relevant to 2009 was paid during the third quarter of 2011 in accordance with instructions received from the local tax authority. Subsequently, in February 2012, the State Tax Bureau in Chongqing issued a written notice to us which confirmed that our Chongqing subsidiary would nonetheless be permitted to apply the preferential tax status for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Further, the local tax authority has refunded the additional EIT of RMB6.4 million ($1.0 million) paid by the Company. The Company believes this determination by the tax authorities, which represents a reversal of an earlier decision taken, is analogous to a settlement of tax position in a tax examination. Accordingly, the Company will reverse in the first quarter of 2012 the income tax liability of RMB11.4 million ($1.8 million) previously accrued in connection with the rate change for 2008 and 2010, as well as the additional EIT expense of RMB6.4 million ($1.0 million) for 2009. As illustrated by our recent experience, in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to complex income tax and other tax regulations and significant judgment is required in the determination of a provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax provisions are reasonable, if the PRC tax authorities successfully challenge our positions and we are required to pay tax, interests and penalties in excess of our tax provisions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China against us or our management named in the annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers reside within China and most of them are PRC nationals. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in PRC courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. In addition, since we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of the Cayman Islands, it may not be possible for you to bring an action against us or against our directors or officers based upon PRC laws in the event that you believe that your rights as a shareholder have been infringed. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, the income of CSC Cayman, our holding company, is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to CSC Cayman, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, the Circular on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted through Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular No. 75, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies which are also established or controlled by such PRC residents, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. In addition, any PRC resident that is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose entity is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with respect to that offshore special purpose entity in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment, creation of any security interest over any assets located in China or any other material changes in share capital. 16 Table of Contents Our shareholders who are PRC residents and acquired our shares prior to our listing have completed their initial registration with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE Circular No. 75. However, we may not be fully informed of the identities of the beneficial owners of our company in the future and we cannot assure you that all of our Chinese resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure of our beneficial owners who are Chinese residents to make or amend any required registrations may subject these Chinese residents to fines and legal sanctions, and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries and limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you may be materially and adversely affected. All participants of our existing share incentive plan who are PRC domestic individuals are required to register with SAFE, and the failure to so comply could subject us and such participants to penalties. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of an Overseas Listed Company, the 2007 Stock Option Rules. On May 29, 2007, SAFE issued the Notice on Printing and Distributing the Operating Rules for the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Issues about Foreign Exchange Control over the Financing and Return Investment of Domestic Residents through Overseas Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 106. On February 25, 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice Regarding Administration of Foreign Exchange Issues on Domestic Individuals Participation in Share Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the 2012 Stock Option Rules which has amended the 2007 Stock Option Rules slightly and repeal the 2007 Stock Option Rules. The purpose of both the 2007 Stock Option Rules and the 2012 Stock Option Rules is to regulate the foreign exchange administration of PRC domestic individuals who participate in employee stock ownership plans and share option plans of overseas listed companies. According to these regulations, PRC domestic individuals, including PRC citizens and foreign individuals, who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. These participants should retain a PRC agent, which can be a subsidiary of the overseas listed company in China, to handle various foreign exchange matters associated with these plans.The PRC domestic individuals shall appoint a PRC agent to process the foreign registration, account opening, capital transfer and exchange and an overseas institution to process the exercise of the options, purchase and sale of stocks or stakes and the capital transfer and other related matters. The PRC agents or employers should, on behalf of the PRC domestic individuals, apply annually to SAFE or its competent local branches for a quota for the conversion and/or payment of foreign currencies in connection with the PRC citizens’ exercise of the employee stock options. The foreign exchange proceeds received by the PRC citizens from sale of shares under the stock option plans granted by the overseas listed companies must be remitted into the bank accounts in China opened by their employers or PRC agents. We and our employees, directors and consultants who are PRC domestic individuals and who have participated in the share incentive plan registered with the local SAFE branch under the then effective Stock Option Rules, namely the 2007 Stock Option Rules in 2011. However, since we may grant stocks and/or options to our employees, directors and consultants from time to time, we cannot assure you that we can successfully complete the registrations for the stocks and/or options under the 2012 Stock Option Rules in the future. If we or our employees, directors and consultants who are PRC residents fail to complete these registrations, we or such persons may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Any failure to comply with such regulations may subject us and the participants of our share incentive plan who are PRC domestic individuals to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant share incentive to our personnel which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees, as a result of which our business operations may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our current employment practices may be adversely impacted under the labor contract law of the PRC. The PRC National People’s Congress promulgated the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to previous labor laws, the Labor Contract Law provides stronger protections for employees and imposes more obligations on employers. According to the Labor Contract Law, employers have the obligation to enter into written labor contracts with employees to specify the key terms of the employment relationship. The law also stipulates, among other things, (i) that all written labor contracts shall contain certain requisite terms; (ii) that the length of trial employment periods must be in proportion to the terms of the relevant labor contracts, which in any event shall be no longer than six months; (iii) that in certain circumstances, a labor contract shall be deemed to be without a fixed term and thus an employee can only be terminated with cause; and (iv) that there shall be certain restrictions on the circumstances under which employers may terminate labor contracts as well as the economic compensations to employees upon termination of the employee’s employment. A significant number of our employees are contracted through Chongqing Investment Promotion Human Resources Management Services Co., Ltd., a third-party human resources company, that is responsible for managing, among others, payrolls, social insurance contributions and local residency permits of these employees. We may be held jointly liable if Chongqing Investment Promotion Human Resources Management Services Co., Ltd. fails to pay such employees their wages and other benefits or otherwise become liable to these employees for labor law violations. In addition, in the event we decide to significantly change or downsize our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could restrict our ability to terminate employee contracts and adversely affect our ability to make such changes to our workforce in a manner that is most favorable to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our employment practices do not, or will not, violate the Labor Contract Law. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant legal fees in connection with labor law disputes or investigations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the Renminbi fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further volatility in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, CSC Cayman may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by CSC Cayman to our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. 18 Table of Contents In addition, any capital contributions to our PRC wholly-owned subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiaries in China to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money or pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. As a holding company, CSC Cayman relies principally on dividends and other payments from our wholly owned operating subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including funds necessary to service any debt we may incur, to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders and to pay our operating expenses. If our Chinese subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to make payments or distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant Chinese laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Chinese subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese laws and regulations, each of our Chinese subsidiaries is required to set aside a portion of its net income based on PRC accounting standards each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve, until the accumulated amount of such reserve has reached 50% of its registered capital. The reserve funds amounted to RMB36.4 million ($5.8 million) as of December 31, 2011. This reserve is not distributable as dividends except in the event of liquidation of these subsidiaries. As a result, our Chinese subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us or any of our other subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitation on the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to pay dividends to CSC Cayman or any of our other subsidiaries could materially and adversely limit our ability to borrow money outside of China or pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. See also “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—The dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to Chinese tax under the EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders will be subject to a Chinese withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and gains on the sale of ADSs or ordinary shares may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws, if we are classified as a Chinese ‘resident enterprise.’” The dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to Chinese tax under the EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders will be subject to a Chinese withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and gains on the sale of ADSs or ordinary shares may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws, if we are classified as a Chinese “resident enterprise.” Under the EIT Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. Under the arrangement for avoidance of double taxation between mainland China and Hong Kong, the effective withholding tax applicable to a Hong Kong non-resident company is currently 5% if it directly owns no less than 25% stake in the Chinese foreign-invested enterprise and meets the conditions of beneficial owner. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside China with its “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” in China and is subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. We cannot assure you that our Cayman Islands holding company, CSC Cayman, will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. It is also unclear whether the dividends CSC Cayman receives from our CSC China will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and therefore qualify for exemption from withholding tax, even if CSC Cayman is deemed to be a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If the Chinese tax authorities subsequently determine that CSC Cayman should be classified as a resident enterprise, foreign ADS holders will be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains on the sale of ADSs may also be subject to tax under the EIT Law. Any such tax may reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. 19 Table of Contents The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The closing trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$6.60 to US$25.54 in 2011. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in the industry, announcements by us or our competitions of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel, fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the Canadian dollar or the U.S. dollar, intellectual property litigation, release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares or ADSs, and economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ADSs. Furthermore, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or the expectation of substantial sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. 20 Table of Contents In addition, several of our shareholders have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration of these shares. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities depends, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the food services industry in China in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote with respect to any specific matter. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. 21 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time, or from time to time when it deems expedient, in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the respective laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and China, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on courts in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands does. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have adopted amended and restated articles of association that contain provisions which could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and the trading price of our ADSs could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on our current income and assets and projections as to the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares, we do not expect to be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC (as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes and as described below), for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012, or for the foreseeable future. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and we will make a separate determination for each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Depending upon the value of our assets based on the market value of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be or become classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Hence, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares may cause us to be or become classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2011 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income, or (2) 50% or more of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income means any income which would be considered foreign personal holding company income under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including, without limitation, dividends, interest, royalties, rent, annuities, net gains from the sale or exchange of property producing such income, net gains from commodity transactions, net foreign currency gains and income from notional principal contracts. The market value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate. 23 Table of Contents If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on our ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor regarding the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding, and disposing of our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information see “Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 