D. Risk Factors,” and includes risks relating to earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our current and future loan arrangements, the provisions of the Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. The BCA generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from paid-in capital in excess of par value and our earnings or while we are insolvent or if we would be rendered insolvent upon paying the dividend. Subject to preferences that may apply to any shares of preferred stock outstanding at the time, the holders of our common shares and Class B shares will be entitled to share equally in any dividends that our board of directors may declare from time to time out of funds legally available for dividends. Conversion Our common shares will not be convertible into any other shares of our capital stock. Each of our Class B shares will be convertible at any time at the election of the holder thereof into one of our common shares. All conversions will be effected on a one-for-one basis. We will not reissue or resell any Class B shares that shall have been converted into common shares. Directors Our directors will be elected by the vote of the plurality of the votes cast by holders with voting power of our voting shares. Our articles of incorporation provide that our board of directors must consist of at least three members. Shareholders may change the number of directors only by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the total voting power of our outstanding capital stock (subject to the rights of any holders of preferred shares). The board of directors may change the number of directors only by a majority vote of the entire board of directors. We intend to issue one preferred share to Mr. Feidakis or his affiliate that will provide the holder with the ability to appoint any one person to be a director, who may also be the chairman of our board of directors, for so long as such holder and his or its affiliates also hold in the aggregate at least 30% of the voting power of our shares. Such preferred share will have no voting or dividend rights. No contract or transaction between us and one or more of our directors or officers will be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of our board of directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if (1) the material facts as to such director’s interest in such contract or transaction and as to any such common directorship, officership or financial interest are disclosed in good faith or known to the board of directors or committee, and the board of directors or committee approves such contract or transaction by a vote sufficient for such purpose without counting the vote of such interested director, or, if the votes of the disinterested directors are insufficient to constitute an act of the board, by unanimous vote of the disinterested directors; or (2) the material facts as to such director’s interest in such contract or transaction and as to any such common directorship, officership or financial interest are disclosed in good faith or known to the shareholders entitled to vote thereon, and such contract or transaction is approved by vote of such shareholders. 78 Our board of directors has the authority to fix the compensation of directors for their services. Classified Board of Directors Our articles of incorporation provide for a board of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. Approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year. Removal of Directors; Vacancies Our articles of incorporation provide that directors may be removed with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of 66-2/3% of the total voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Our bylaws require parties to provide advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors other than the board of directors and shareholders holding 30% or more of the voting power of the aggregate number of our shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote. No Cumulative Voting The BCA provides that shareholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors unless our articles of incorporation provide otherwise. Our articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting. Shareholder Meetings Under our bylaws, annual shareholder meetings will be held at a time and place selected by our board of directors. The meetings may be held in or outside of the Marshall Islands. Special meetings may be called by the chairman of our board of directors, by resolution of our board of directors or by holders of 30% or more of the voting power of the aggregate number of our shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting. Our board of directors may set a record date between 15 and 60 days before the date of any meeting to determine the shareholders that will be eligible to receive notice and vote at the meeting. Dissenters’ Right of Appraisal and Payment Under the BCA, our shareholders have the right to dissent from various corporate actions, including certain mergers or consolidations or sale of all or substantially all of our assets not made in the usual course of our business, and receive payment of the fair value of their shares, subject to exceptions. For example, the right of a dissenting shareholder to receive payment of the fair value of his shares is not available if for the shares of any class or series of stock, which shares at the record date fixed to determine the shareholders entitled to receive notice of and vote at the meeting of shareholders to act upon the agreement of merger or consolidation, were either (1) listed on a securities exchange or admitted for trading on an interdealer quotation system or (2) held of record by more than 2,000 holders. In the event of any further amendment of our articles of incorporation, a shareholder also has the right to dissent and receive payment for his or her shares if the amendment alters certain rights in respect of those shares. The dissenting shareholder must follow the procedures set forth in the BCA to receive payment. In the event that we and any dissenting shareholder fail to agree on a price for the shares, the BCA procedures involve, among other things, the institution of proceedings in the high court of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or in any appropriate court in any jurisdiction in which our shares are primarily traded on a local or national securities exchange to fix the value of the shares. Shareholders’ Derivative Actions Under the BCA, any of our shareholders may bring an action in our name to procure a judgment in our favor, also known as a derivative action, provided that the shareholder bringing the action is a holder of common shares both at the time the derivative action is commenced and at the time of the transaction to which the action relates or that the shares devolved upon the shareholder by operation of law. Amendment to our Articles of Incorporation Except as otherwise provided by law, any provision in our articles of incorporation requiring a vote of shareholders may only be amended by such a vote. Further, certain sections may only be amended by affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the voting shares. 79 Anti-Takeover Effects of Certain Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, which are summarized in the following paragraphs, may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt or hostile change of control that a shareholder may consider in its best interest, including those attempts that may result in a premium over the market price for our common shares held by shareholders. Two Classes of Shares Our Class B shares will have 20 votes per share, while our common shares, which is the only class of shares listed on an established U.S. securities exchange, will have one vote per share. Because of this share structure, any issuance of Class B shares may cause such holders to be able to significantly influence matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even if such holders and their affiliates come to own significantly less than 50% of the aggregate number of outstanding common shares and Class B shares. This control over shareholder voting could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that other shareholders may view as beneficial and which would require shareholder approval. Blank Check Preferred Shares Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to issue up to 100 million shares of blank check preferred shares. We currently have outstanding 2,567 Series A Preferred Shares. Except as may be provided in the BCA, holders of our Series A Preferred Shares do not have any voting rights. Classified Board of Directors Our articles of incorporation provide for a board of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. Approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year. This classified board of directors provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of us. It could also delay shareholders who do not agree with the policies of the board of directors from removing a majority of the board of directors for two years. No Cumulative Voting The BCA provides that shareholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors unless our articles of incorporation provide otherwise. Our articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting. Calling of Special Meetings of Shareholders Our bylaws provide that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, by resolution of our board of directors or by holders of 30% or more of the voting power of the aggregate number of our shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations Our bylaws provide that, with a few exceptions, shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 150 days nor more than 180 days prior to the first anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders. Our bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice. These provisions may impede shareholders’ ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. Business Combinations Although the BCA does not contain specific provisions regarding “business combinations” between companies organized under or redomiciled pursuant to the laws of the Marshall Islands and “interested shareholders,” these provisions are contained in our articles of incorporation. Specifically, our articles of incorporation contain provisions that prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years following the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless, in addition to any other approval that may be required by applicable law: 80 Ø prior to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; Ø upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85.0% of our voting shares outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding those shares owned by (1) persons who are directors and officers and (2) employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or Ø at or after the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least 66-2/3% of the voting power of the voting shares that are not owned by the interested shareholder. Among other transactions, a “business combination” includes any merger or consolidation of us or any directly or indirectly majority-owned subsidiary of ours with (1) the interested shareholder or any of its affiliates or (2) with any corporation, partnership, unincorporated association or other entity if the merger or consolidation is caused by the interested shareholder. Generally, an “interested shareholder” is any person or entity (other than us and any direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiary of ours) that: Ø owns 15.0% or more of our outstanding voting shares; Ø is an affiliate or associate of ours and was the owner of 15.0% or more of our outstanding voting shares at any time within the three-year period immediately prior to the date on which it is sought to be determined whether such person is an interested shareholder; or Ø is an affiliate or associate of any person listed in the first two bullets, except that any person who owns 15.0% or more of our outstanding voting shares, as a result of action taken solely by us will not be an interested shareholder unless such person acquires additional voting shares, except as a result of further action by us and not caused, directly or indirectly, by such person. Additionally, the restrictions regarding business combinations do not apply to persons that became interested shareholders prior to the effectiveness of our articles of incorporation. Limitations on Liability and Indemnification of Directors and Officers The BCA authorizes corporations to limit or eliminate the personal liability of directors to corporations and their shareholders for monetary damages for breaches of certain directors’ fiduciary duties. Our articles of incorporation include a provision that eliminates the personal liability of directors for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director to the fullest extent permitted by law and provides that we must indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent authorized by law. We are also expressly authorized to advance certain expenses to our directors and officers and expect to carry directors’ and officers’ insurance providing indemnification for our directors and officers for some liabilities. We believe that these indemnification provisions and the directors’ and officers’ insurance are useful to attract and retain qualified directors and executive officers. The limitation of liability and indemnification provisions in our articles of incorporation may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against our directors for breach of their fiduciary duty. These provisions may also have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers, even though such an action, if successful, may otherwise benefit us and our shareholders. In addition, an investor in our common shares may be adversely affected to the extent we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against directors and officers pursuant to these indemnification provisions. There is no pending material litigation or proceeding involving any of our directors, officers or employees for which indemnification is sought. 81 C. Material Contracts We refer you to “Item 7.B. Related Party Transactions” for a discussion of our agreements with companies related to us. We also refer you to “