D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business If we are not able to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our business and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses. Therefore, our ability to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to continue to develop new programs and enhance or adapt existing programs to respond to changes in market trends, student demands and government policies, expand our geographic reach, manage our growth while maintaining consistent and high teaching quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, develop additional high-quality educational content and respond effectively to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our revenues may decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to recruit, train and retain qualified teachers, who are critical to the success of our business and effective delivery of our tutoring services to students. Our teachers are critical to the quality of our services and our reputation. We seek to hire qualified and dedicated teachers who deliver effective and inspirational instruction. There is a limited pool of teachers with these attributes, and we must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain such qualified teachers. We must also provide continued training to our teachers to ensure that they stay abreast of changes in student demands, academic standards and other key trends necessary to teach effectively. Although we have not experienced major difficulties in recruiting, training or retaining qualified teachers in the past, we may not be able to recruit, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified teachers in the future to keep pace with our growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality in the different markets we serve. A shortage of qualified teachers or a decrease in the quality of our teachers’ services, whether actual or perceived, or a significant increase in compensation for us to retain qualified teachers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to improve the content of our existing courses or to develop new courses or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. We constantly update and improve the content of our existing courses and develop new courses or services to meet changing market demands. Revisions to our existing courses and our newly developed courses or services may not be well received by existing or prospective students or their parents. If we cannot respond effectively to changes in market demands, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop new courses or services that are well received, we may not be able to introduce them in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we do not respond adequately to changes in market demands, our ability to attract and retain students may be impaired and our financial results could suffer. 5 Table of Contents Offering new courses or services or modifying existing courses may require us to make investments in content development, increase marketing efforts and re-allocate resources away from other uses. We may have limited experience with the content of new courses or services and may need to adjust our systems and strategies to incorporate new courses or services into our existing offerings. If we are unable to continuously improve the content of our existing courses, or offer new courses or services in a timely or cost-effective manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our “Xueersi” brand has contributed significantly to the success of our business, and that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to maintaining our competitive advantage. If we are unable to successfully promote and market our brand and services, our ability to attract new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We mainly rely on word-of-mouth referrals to attract prospective students. We also use marketing tools such as the Internet, public lectures, outdoor advertising campaigns, and distribution of marketing materials to promote our brand and service offerings. In order to maintain and increase our brand recognition and promote our new service offerings, we have increased our marketing personnel and expenses over the last several years. We have also sought to strengthen recognition for our other brands, such as our “Haoweilai” brand, which is the umbrella brand for all our brands, our “Zhikang” brand, through which we offer personalized premium services, our “Mobby” brand, through which we offer young learners tutoring services for students aged three through eight, our “Lejiale” brand, through which we offer English subject tutoring services and our “Dongxuetang” brand, through which we offer our Chinese subject tutoring services. A number of factors could prevent us from successfully promoting our brand, including student dissatisfaction with our services and the failure of our marketing tools and strategies to attract prospective students. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our “Xueersi” brand, successfully develop additional brands, or utilize marketing tools in a cost-effective manner, our revenues and profitability may suffer. Moreover, we offer a variety of courses to primary, middle and high school students in some of the largest cities in China. As we continue to grow in size, expand our course offerings and extend our geographic reach, it may be more difficult to maintain quality and consistent standards of our services and to protect and promote our brand name. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our services, or if we incur excessive sales and marketing expenses, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of future performance. Although we commenced operations in 2003, we have experienced our significant growth in terms of employees, operations and revenues in recent years. Our net revenues increased from $177.5 million in the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012 to $225.9 million in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013, and further to $313.9 million in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies at our stage of development. In addition, the after-school tutoring service market in China is still at an early stage of development, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Furthermore, our results of operations may vary from period to period in response to a variety of other factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and regulations or government actions pertaining to the private education service sector in China, changes in spending on private education, our ability to accurately predict cost of revenues and operating expenses, and non-recurring charges incurred in connection with acquisitions or minority stake investments or other extraordinary transactions or under unexpected circumstances. Due to the above factors, our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on our past results or our historic growth rates as indications of our future performance. 6 Table of Contents If our students’ level of performance deteriorates or satisfaction with our services declines, they may decide to withdraw from our courses and request refunds and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on our ability to deliver a satisfactory learning experience and improved academic results. Our tutoring services may fail to improve a student’s academic performance and a student may perform below expectations even after completing our courses. Additionally, student and parent satisfaction with our services may decline. A student’s learning experience may also suffer if his or her relationship with our teachers does not meet expectations. We generally offer refunds for remaining classes to students who withdraw from a course. If a significant number of students fail to improve their academic performance after attending our courses or if their learning experiences with us are unsatisfactory, they may decide to withdraw from our courses and request refunds, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be adversely affected. We face significant competition, and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose our market share and our profitability may be adversely affected. The private education market in China is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We face competition in each type of services we offer and in each geographic market in which we operate. Our competitors at the national level include New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. and Xueda Education Group. Our student enrollments may decrease due to intense competition. Some of our competitors may have more resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their programs, services and products and respond more quickly than we can to changes in student needs, testing materials, admission standards, market trends or new technologies. In addition, some smaller local companies may be able to respond more quickly to changes in student preferences in some of our targeted markets. Moreover, the increasing use of the Internet and advances in Internet- and computer-related technologies, such as web video conferencing and online testing simulators, are eliminating geographic and physical facility-related entry barriers to providing private education services. As a result, smaller local companies or Internet-content providers may be able to use the Internet to offer their programs, services and products quickly and cost-effectively to a large number of students with less capital expenditure than previously required. Consequently, we may be required to reduce course fees or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. We will also face increased competition as we expand our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position or otherwise effectively respond to competition, we may lose our market share and our profitability may be adversely affected. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our service network may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities. Our business has experienced growth in recent years. The number of our learning centers increased from 270 as of February 29, 2012 to 274 as of February 28, 2014. We plan to continue to expand our operations in different geographic markets in China. Establishing new learning centers poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. The expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management and staff as well as our financial, operational, technological and other resources. In addition, our new learning centers typically incur pre-opening costs and may incur losses during the initial ramp-up stage since we incur rent, salary and other operating expenses for new learning centers regardless of any revenues we may generate. If the ramp-up of our new learning centers is slower than expected, whether due to our inability to attract sufficient student enrollments or charge hourly rates for our courses that are high enough for us to recover our costs, our overall financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. Our planned expansion will also place significant pressure on us to maintain teaching quality and consistent standards, controls and policies to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decrease, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our programs. To manage and support our expansion, we must improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified teachers and management personnel as well as other administrative and marketing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, maintain or increase our gross and operating profit margins, recruit and retain qualified teachers and management personnel, successfully integrate new learning centers into our operations and otherwise effectively manage our growth. If we are not successful in effectively and efficiently managing our expansion, we may not be able to capitalize on new business opportunities, which may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategies include further penetrating our existing markets, extending our geographic reach into new regions, further developing our online course offerings and online education platform, and expanding our Mobby tutoring services. We may not succeed in executing our growth strategies due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: · we may fail to identify, and effectively market our services in, new markets with sufficient growth potential into which to expand our network or promote new courses in existing markets; · it may be difficult to increase the number of learning centers in more developed cities; · we may not be able to continue to replicate our successful growth model in Beijing and Shanghai to other geographic markets, and may experience decline in our Beijing and/or Shanghai businesses that would offset the growth we are experiencing in other geographic markets; · our analysis for selecting suitable new locations may not be accurate and the demand for our services at such new locations may not materialize or increase as rapidly as we expect; · we may fail to obtain the requisite licenses and permits necessary to open learning centers at our desired locations from local authorities or face risks in opening without the requisite licenses and permits; · we may not be able to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively; · we may not be able to continue to enhance our online offerings or expand them to new markets, generate profits from online offerings, or adapt online offerings to changing student needs and technological advances such that we will continue to face significant student acquisition costs in the markets we enter; and · we may fail to be profitable in our new tutoring business and may encounter obstacles in expanding our Mobby tutoring business to other markets. If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected as a result. At present, we derive a majority of our revenues from Beijing and Shanghai. Any event negatively affecting the private education market in Beijing or Shanghai, or any increase in the level of competition for the types of services we offer in these two cities, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and results of operations. Our services in Beijing and Shanghai currently contribute most of our revenues. We derived approximately 88.5%, 77.4% and 65.9% of our total net revenues for the fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2013 and February 28, 2014, respectively, from these two cities. Although revenues from our services provided in other cities have grown in recent years, we expect that our services in Beijing and Shanghai will continue to be the main source of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If either city experiences an event negatively affecting its private education market, such as a serious economic downturn, natural disaster or outbreak of contagious disease, adopts regulations relating to private education that place additional restrictions or burdens on us, or experiences an increase in the level of competition for the types of services we offer, our overall business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively, our business and prospects could be harmed. The expansion of our personalized premium services business has entailed and may continue to entail significant investment of human capital, financial resources and management time and attention as such one-on-one tutoring services impose a different set of requirements on our teachers and many other aspects of our operations than small classes, which currently constitute the main format of our service offerings. If we fail to manage our personalized premium services business efficiently and cost-effectively, it could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Failure to adequately and promptly respond to changes in PRC laws and regulations on school curriculum, examination systems and admission standards in China could render our courses and services less attractive to students. Under China’s education system, school admissions rely heavily on examination results. College and high school entrance examinations in most cases are mandatory for high schools and middle school graduates to gain admission to colleges and high schools, respectively, and therefore, a student’s performance in these examinations is critical to his or her education and future employment prospects. Although examinations are not required for entering middle schools, many key middle schools administer their own assessment processes to disqualify prospective students. It is therefore common for students to take after-school tutoring classes to improve performance, and the success of our business to a large extent depends on the continued use of assessment process by high schools and colleges in their admissions. However, such heavy emphasis on examination scores may decline or fall out of favor with educational institutions or education authorities in China. There are continuous changes in the focus of the subjects and questions tested in high school and college entrance exams in China, the format of the tests, the manner in which the tests are administered and college admission standards in China. These changes require us to continually update and enhance our curriculum, course materials and teaching methods. Any inability to track and respond to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner would make our services and products less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students. For example, the Ministry of Education, or MOE, promulgated new curriculum standards for primary and secondary schools in China covering 19 subjects, including mathematics, Chinese and English, in December 2011. These new curriculum standards began taking effect in the fall semester of 2012. We have completed the process of adapting our tutoring programs and materials to these new curriculum requirements. However, any failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to such changes will adversely impact the marketability of our services and products. Regulations and policies which de-emphasize scholastic competition achievements in college and high school admissions have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our enrollments. Our business in Beijing has been affected by the change in policy on the use of mathematical Olympiad competition results for admission to key middle schools. Following the MOE’s amendment of its “extra credit policy” in November 2010 to limit the number of extra scores Olympiad competition winners may receive for their college entrance examination and in compliance with the Implementation Opinions on Standardizing Educational Changes and Adjusting Arbitrary Educational Changes in 2013, which relate to the admissions processes of high schools, certain local educational authorities promulgated policies limiting the role of Olympiad competitions in the admission process of high schools and middle schools. In February 2013, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission issued a Notice on Mitigating Schoolwork-Related Stress on Students in Primary and Secondary Schools, which, among other things, prohibit public schools from cooperating with or authorizing private training organizations to offer after-school tutoring services for the purpose of enrolling students in such public schools. This policy has generally resulted in a decrease in the demand for mathematical Olympiad competition courses, which in turn has also affected the enrollments in our mathematics classes as well as our personalized premium services business. In addition, the MOE issued the Implementation Opinions on Further Improving the Exam-exemption and Nearest Schooling Enrollment Work in Secondary Schools on January 14, 2014 to clarify that local educational administrative departments at all levels, public schools and private schools are not allowed to use examinations to select their students. Public schools may not use various competitions or examinations as the selection method for enrollment. The general office of the MOE issued the Notice on Further Improving the Compulsory School Exam-exemption and Nearest Schooling Enrollment Work in Main Cities to the provincial and municipal educational administrative departments in Beijing, Tianjin, Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Shandong, Hubei, Guangdong, Chongqing, Sichuan, Shanxi, Dalian, Qingdao, Ningbo, Xiamen and Shenzhen on January 28, 2014 to further request that all the primary schools and secondary schools in main cities implement this notice gradually from now to 2017 and put an end to the entrance examinations and the link between entrance examinations and enrollment. These policies were published recently and have not resulted in a decrease in the demand for any of our services so far. However, we cannot ensure that they will not adversely affect the performance of our after-school tutoring business and personalized premium services that target students in primary schools. 9 Table of Contents Also, education authorities in Yunnan Province stopped administering provincial-level high school entrance examinations in 2010. High school admissions in Yunnan Province have since then been based on a combination of middle school examination results that have replaced raw scores with letter grades and comprehensive evaluations of students’ aptitude and performance by their middle schools. Yunnan Province also began to prohibit subject competitions in primary and secondary schools in November 2009. Although we do not offer after-school tutoring services in Yunnan Province, nor do we expect to do so in the near future, it is possible that the local governments in the areas where we have operations may adopt similar measures. Furthermore, approximately 90 universities in China have been allowed to recruit generally no more than 5% of their students through independently administered examinations and admission procedures in recent years. In some provinces, such as Hubei, this proportion was reported to be increased to 8% in 2012. Candidates for admission to those universities are still required to take college entrance examinations and meet certain threshold requirements, but their college entrance exam scores are no longer the sole determining factor in the admission processes of those universities. If we fail to adjust our services to respond to any such material changes, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, admission and assessment processes in China constantly undergo changes and development in terms of subject and skill focus, question type, examination format and the manner in which processes are used. We are therefore required to continually update and improve our curriculum, course materials and our teaching methods. A failure to track and respond to any such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner could make our courses and services less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students and in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accidents or injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises may adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and cause us to incur substantial costs. Although we carry certain liability insurance for our students and their parents, in the event of accidents or injuries or other harm to students or other people on our premises, including those caused by or otherwise arising from the actions of our employees or contractors on our premises, our facilities may be perceived to be unsafe, which may discourage prospective students from attending our classes. We could also face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision to our employees or contractors and therefore should be held jointly liable for harm caused by them or are otherwise liable for injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises. For instance, in 2012, three students were injured while attending a physics laboratory class in Beijing. We have paid for the medical and related expenses and/or negotiated settlements with the families of these three students, and while we have liability insurance policies, such policies only covered a small portion of the compensation. Although we have since enhanced preventive measures to avoid similar incidents, we cannot assure you that there will be no similar incidents in the future. A material liability claim against us or any of our teachers or independent contractors could adversely affect our reputation, enrollment and revenues. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could create unfavorable publicity, cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert the time and attention of our management. Our new courses and services may compete with our existing offerings. We are constantly developing new courses and services to meet changes in student demands, school curriculum, testing materials, admission standards, market trends and technologies. While some of the courses and services that we develop will expand our current offerings and increase student enrollment, others may compete with or render obsolete our existing offerings without increasing our total student enrollment. For example, our online courses might attract students away from our classroom-based courses. If we are unable to increase our total student enrollment and profitability as we expand our course and service offerings, our business and growth may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents If we are not able to continually enhance our online courses and services and adapt to rapid changes in technological demands and student needs, we may lose market share and our business could be adversely affected. Widespread use of the Internet for educational purposes is a relatively recent occurrence, and the market for Internet-based courses and services is characterized by rapid technological changes and innovations, as well as unpredictable product life cycles and user preferences. We have limited experience with online courses and services. We must be able to adapt quickly to changing student needs and preferences, technological advances and evolving Internet practices in order to compete successfully in online education. Ongoing enhancement of our online offerings and technologies may entail significant expenses and technological risks, and we may not be able to use new technologies effectively and may fail to adapt to changes in the online education market on a timely and cost-effective basis. We began offering online courses through our www.xueersi.com in 2010 and revenues generated from our online course offerings through www.xueersi.com accounted for 3.2%, 3.1% and 3.0% of our total net revenues in the fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2013 and February 28, 2014, respectively. We expect that revenues from our online course offerings will increase. However, if improvements to our online offerings and technologies are delayed, result in systems interruptions or are not aligned with market expectations or preferences, we may lose market share and our growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, which includes Bangxin Zhang, our chairman and chief executive officer, Yachao Liu, our senior vice president, Yunfeng Bai, our senior vice president and Joseph Kauffman, our chief financial officer. If any member of our senior management team leaves us and we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel in the future or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced professionals on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition for experienced management personnel in the education industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or to attract and retain high quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. Our success also depends on our having highly trained financial, technical, human resource, sales and marketing staff, management personnel and qualified teachers for local markets. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel as our business grows. A shortage in the supply of personnel with requisite skills or our failure to recruit them could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing courses and services, to launch new course and service offerings and to expand our operations, and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to control rental costs, obtain leases at desired locations at reasonable prices or protect our leasehold interests could materially and adversely affect our business. Our office space and service and learning centers are presently mainly located on leased premises. We purchased 7,582 square meters of building space in Beijing in July 2011, which we renovated as offices in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013. With respect to our leased premises, at the end of each lease term, which generally ranges from one to six years, we must negotiate an extension of the lease and if we are not able to negotiate an extension on terms acceptable to us, we will be forced to move to a different location, or the rent may increase significantly. This could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our profitability. All of our leases are subject to renewal at market prices, which could result in a substantial rent increase at each time of renewal. We compete with many other businesses for sites in certain prime locations and some landlords may have entered into long-term leases with our competitors for these locations. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases at desirable locations or renew our existing leases on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, a few of our lessors have not been able to provide us with copies of title certificates or other evidencing documents to prove that they have authorization to lease the properties to us. We also have not registered most of our lease agreements with the relevant PRC governmental authorities as required by relevant PRC law. As of the date of this annual report, we are not aware of any actions, claims or investigations threatened against us or our lessors with respect to the defects in our leasehold interests. We were aware of the defects when we entered into those leases. In many cases, we entered into leases upon promises from the lessors that relevant certificates and authorizations would be delivered at a later time, which did not eventually materialize. Our business and legal teams followed an internal guideline to identify and assess risks in connection with leasing the properties, and a final business decision was made after our analysis of the likely impact of the defects on the leasehold interests and the value of the properties to our expansion plan. However, there is no assurance that our decision would always lead to the favorable outcome we expected to achieve. If any of our leases are terminated as a result of challenges by third parties or government authorities for lack of title certificates or proof of authorization to lease, we do not expect to be subject to any fines or penalties but we may be forced to relocate the affected learning centers and incur additional expenses relating to such relocation. If we fail to find suitable replacement sites in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Capacity constraints of our teaching facilities could cause us to lose students to our competitors. The teaching facilities of our physical network are limited in size and number of classrooms. We may not be able to admit all students who would like to enroll in our courses due to the capacity constraints of our teaching facilities. This would deprive us of the opportunity to serve them and to potentially develop a long-term relationship with them for continued services. If we fail to expand our physical capacity as quickly as the demand for our classroom-based services grows, we could lose potential students to our competitors, and our results of operations and business prospects could suffer. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and business may suffer. We consider our copyrights, trademarks, trade names, Internet domain names and other intellectual property rights invaluable to our ability to continue to develop and enhance our brand recognition. Unauthorized use of our copyrights, trademarks, trade names and domain names may damage our reputation and brands. Our “Xueersi” brand and logo is a registered trademark in China. Our proprietary curricula and course materials are protected by copyrights. However, preventing copyright, trademark, trade name, Internet domain name and other intellectual property rights infringement or misuse could be difficult, costly and time-consuming, particularly in China. The measures we take to protect our copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are currently based upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws in China and may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized uses. Furthermore, application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. There have been several incidents in the past where third parties used our brand “Xueersi” without our authorization, and on occasion we have needed to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we are still in the process of applying for the registration in China of the trademarks for our “Haoweilai” brand. We cannot assure you that the relevant governmental authorities will grant us the approval to register such trademarks. As a result, we may be unable to prevent third parties from utilizing this brand name, which may have an adverse impact on our brand image. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in the future, we may lose these rights, our brand name may be harmed, and our business may suffer materially. Furthermore, our management’s attention may be diverted by violations of our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to enter into costly litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of the intellectual property of third parties. We cannot assure you that our courses and marketing materials, online courses, products, and platform or other intellectual property developed or used by us do not or will not infringe upon valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in those disputes. We have adopted policies and procedures to prohibit our employees and contractors from infringing upon third-party copyright or intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure that our teachers or other personnel will not, against our policies, use third-party copyrighted materials or intellectual property without proper authorization in our classes, on our websites, at any of our locations or via any medium through which we provide our programs. Our users may also post unauthorized third-party content on our websites. We may incur liability for unauthorized duplication or distribution of materials posted on our websites or used in our classes. We have been involved in claims against us alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and we may be subject to such claims in the future. Any such intellectual property infringement claim could result in costly litigation and divert our management attention and resources. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to negotiate or integrate successfully any future acquisitions or if the value of our investment declines, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may acquire or make minority stake investments in additional businesses in the future. We may not have any control over the businesses or operations of our minority stake investments. If we are unable to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, or if the value of the investment declines over time, it could harm our business and operating results. In addition, if the businesses we acquire or invest in do not subsequently generate the anticipated financial performance or if another goodwill impairment test triggering event occurs, we may need to revalue or write down the value of goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with such acquisitions, which would harm our results of operations. For example, in July 2008 we acquired schools in Wuhan, Jianli and Qianjiang, Hubei Province, for $1.6 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. However, subsequent financial performances at these schools were not in line with our expectations at the time of purchase and as a result, we recognized an aggregate impairment loss on goodwill of $1.2 million on these acquisitions for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2009. We discontinued our operation of the two schools in Jianli and Qianjiang during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2011. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $0.1 million relating to a purchase of a business in Tianjin in March 2008. In January 2014, we made a minority equity investment in BabyTree Inc. for total cash consideration of $23.5 million, which along with other investments may need to be revalued or written down in the future. In addition, we may find it necessary or desirable to invest in or acquire other businesses to remain competitive or to expand our business, but may be unable to identify appropriate acquisition or strategic investment targets. If we identify an appropriate acquisition or investment target, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition or investment successfully, finance the proposed transaction or integrate the relevant businesses into our existing business and operations. Furthermore, as we often do not have control over the companies in which we only have minority stake, we cannot ensure that these companies always will comply with applicable laws and regulations in their business operations. Material non-compliance by our investees may cause substantial harms to our reputations and the value of our investment. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in student enrollments. The fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, comparisons of our operating results between different periods within a single financial year, or between the same periods in different financial years, may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as good indicators of our performance. We have limited liability insurance coverage and do not carry business disruption insurance. We have limited liability insurance coverage for our students and their parents in all of our learning centers, except for our learning and service centers in Jinan. A successful liability claim against us due to injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and reputation. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause adverse publicity to us, require substantial cost to defend and divert the time and attention of our management. For more information, see “Item 3.D.—Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Accidents or injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises may adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and cause us to incur substantial costs.” In addition, we do not have any business disruption insurance. Any business disruption event could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. System disruptions to our websites or computer systems or a leak of student data could damage our reputation and limit our ability to retain students and increase student enrollment. The performance and reliability of our websites and computer systems is critical to our reputation and ability to retain students and increase student enrollment. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in online traffic, could disrupt or slow access to our websites. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our online infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet the increasing demands of our students and their parents. In addition, our computer systems store and process important information including, without limitation, class schedules, registration information and student data and could be vulnerable to interruptions or malfunctions due to events beyond our control, such as natural disasters and technology failures. For instance, we have in the past experienced interruptions to our operations due to temporary computer system failures. Although we have a daily backup system that runs on different servers for our operating data, we may still lose important student data or suffer disruption to our operations if there is a failure of the database system or the backup system. In addition, computer hackers, foreign governments or cyber terrorists may attempt to penetrate our network security and our website. Unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or customer data may be obtained through break-ins, sabotage, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, employee theft or misuse, breach of the security of the networks of our third party providers, or other misconduct. Because the techniques used by computer programmers who may attempt to penetrate and sabotage our network security or our website change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. We would suffer economic and reputational damages if a technical failure of our systems or a security breach compromises student data, including identification or contact information, although there has not been any compromise in the past. Any disruption to our computer systems could therefore have a material adverse effect on our on-site operations and ability to retain students and increase student enrollments. 13 Table of Contents We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or widespread epidemics. On May 12, 2008 and April 20, 2013, severe earthquakes affected parts of Sichuan province in southeastern China, and on April 14, 2010, several earthquakes hit parts of Qinghai province in western China, resulting in significant numbers of casualties and property damages. In April 2009, a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1, commonly known as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In early June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak to be a pandemic. Starting from March 2013, H7N9 bird flu, a new strain of animal influenza, has been spreading in China and has infected more than a hundred people. While we did not suffer any material loss or experience any significant increase in costs as a result of the earthquakes, H1N1 swine influenza or H7N9 bird flu, if a similar disaster or epidemics, including severe acute respiratory syndrome, were to occur in the future and affect any of the cities in which we have major operations, our student attendance and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of February 28, 2014, and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of February 28, 2014. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. In addition, we need to continue to evaluate the consolidation of our VIEs and VIEs’ subsidiaries and schools given the change in the ownership or voting power of the Company by the nominee shareholders of the VIEs. As a result, although we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. 14 Table of Contents Increases in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. The economy of China has been experiencing increases in inflation and labor costs in recent years. China’s consumer price index, the broadest measure of inflation, rose 2.0% from February 2013 to February 2014. The overall economy and the average wage in the PRC are expected to continue to grow. The average wage level for our employees has increased in recent years. In addition, we are required by PRC laws and regulations to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. It is up to the relevant government agencies to determine whether an employer has made adequate payments of the requisite statutory employee benefits, and those employers who fail to make adequate payments may be subject to late payment fees, fines and/or other penalties. We expect that our labor costs, including wages and employee benefits, will continue to increase. Unless we are able to pass on these increased labor costs to our students by increasing prices for our services or improving the utilization of our teachers and our staff, our profitability and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may be the subject of anti-competitive, harassing, or other detrimental conduct by third parties including anonymous allegations, negative blog postings, and the public dissemination of malicious assessments of our business that could cause us to incur significant time and costs to address these allegations, harm our reputation and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We may be the target of anti-competitive, harassing, or other detrimental conduct by third parties. Such conduct includes allegations, anonymous or otherwise, sent to our auditors and/or other third parties regarding our operations, accounting, revenues, business relationships, business prospects and business ethics. Additionally, allegations, directly or indirectly against us, may be posted in internet chat-rooms or on blogs or any websites by anyone, whether or not related to us, on an anonymous basis. We may be subject to government or regulatory investigation as a result of such third-party conduct and may be required to expend significant time and incur substantial costs to address such third-party conduct, and there is no assurance that we will be able to conclusively refute each of the allegations within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Our reputation may also be negatively affected as a result of the public dissemination of anonymous allegations or malicious statements about our business, which in turn may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company under U.S. tax law, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or common shares. Depending upon the value of our assets based, in part, on the market value of our common shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on our current income and assets and projections as to the value of our ADSs, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended February 28, 2014. While we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC, there is a risk that we may become a PFIC for our current taxable year ending on February 28, 2015 and future taxable years because of our significant cash balances and because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or any subsequent taxable year. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our VIEs and their respective subsidiaries as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of the VIEs and their respective subsidiaries for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our current and any subsequent taxable year. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. 15 Table of Contents If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may be subject to reporting requirements and may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or common shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or common shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or common shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or common shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding, and disposing of ADSs or common shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. For more information see “Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—PFIC Considerations” and “Item 10.E.—Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—PFIC Rules.” We have granted and will continue to grant restricted shares, share options and other share-based awards in the future, which may materially reduce our net income. We adopted a share incentive plan in June 2010 that permits granting of options to purchase our Class A common shares, restricted shares, restricted share units, share appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights and other instruments as deemed appropriate by the administrator under the plan. In August 2013, we amended and restated our 2010 Share Incentive Plan. Pursuant to the amended and restated 2010 Share Incentive Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Class A common shares that may be issued pursuant to all awards under our share incentive plan is equal to five percent (5%) of the total issued and outstanding shares as of the date of the amended and restated 2010 Share Incentive Plan. However, the shares reserved may be increased automatically if and whenever the unissued share reserve accounts for less than one percent (1%) of the total then issued and outstanding shares, so that after the increase, the shares unissued and reserved under this plan immediately after each such increase shall equal five percent (5%) of the then issued and outstanding shares. As of April 30, 2014, 13,178,112 non-vested restricted shares under our share incentive plan previously granted to our employees, directors and consultants are outstanding. As a result of these grants and potential future grants under the plan, we have incurred and will continue to incur share-based compensation expenses. We had share-based compensation expenses of $7.9 million, $8.3 million and $8.3 million for the fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2013 and February 28, 2014, respectively. As of February 28, 2014, the unrecognized compensation expenses related to the non-vested restricted shares amounted to $39.2 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.4 years. Expenses associated with share-based compensation awards granted under our share incentive plan may materially reduce our future net income. However, if we limit the size of grants under our share incentive plan to minimize share-based compensation expenses, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in China are not in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entity that invests in the education business in China to be an educational institution with relevant experience in providing education services outside China. None of our offshore holding companies is an educational institution or provides education services. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we have entered into a series of contractual arrangements among Beijing Century TAL Education Technology Co., Ltd., or TAL Beijing, on the one hand, and Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders, subsidiaries and schools, on the other hand. We rely on the series of contractual arrangements among TAL Beijing, Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders, subsidiaries and schools to conduct most of our services in China. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on our Consolidated Affiliated Entities in China to operate our education business until we qualify for direct ownership of educational businesses in China. Pursuant to our contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, we, through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, exclusively provide comprehensive intellectual property licensing, technical and business support services to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities in exchange for payments from them. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and each of their respective shareholders, which provide us with the ability to effectively control Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network, Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective existing and future subsidiaries and schools, as applicable. 16 Table of Contents In or around September 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, has conducted a study and prepared a report for the State Council that contemplates new regulations on the use of contractual arrangements in the context of foreign investment in China and overseas listings of Chinese entities. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC has officially submitted this report to the State Council, what specific content such report contains, what views other government authorities take on the use of such contractual arrangements and whether and when any action may be taken by the State Council, the CSRC, the Ministry of Commerce or any other PRC government authority in this respect. If the corporate structure and contractual arrangements through which we conduct our business in China are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or such arrangements are determined as illegal and invalid by PRC courts, arbitration tribunals or regulatory authorities, or if we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, we would be subject to potential actions by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities with broad discretion, which actions could include: · revoke our business and operating licenses; · require us to discontinue or restrict our operations; · limit our business expansion in China by way of entering into contractual arrangements; · restrict our right to collect revenues or impose fines; · block our websites; · require us to restructure our operations in such a way as to compel us to establish a new enterprise, re-apply for the necessary licenses or relocate our businesses, staff and assets; · impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply; or · take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to operate our education business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C.—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our Consolidated Affiliated Entities as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of the Consolidated Affiliated Entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of these entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities and their respective shareholders of their obligations under the contracts to exercise control over and receive economic benefits from our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. 17 Table of Contents We have entered into equity pledge agreements with Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network and Beijing Dongfangrenli and their respective shareholders to guarantee the performance of the obligations of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities under the exclusive business cooperation agreements they have entered into with us. In the registration forms submitted to the local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce for the pledges over the equity interests under the equity pledge agreements, the amount of registered equity interests pledged to TAL Beijing, our wholly owned subsidiary, was RMB10 million, RMB3 million and RMB1 million for Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network and Beijing Dongfangrenli, respectively, which represents 100% of their respective registered capital. The equity pledge agreements with the shareholders of the VIEs provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute continuing security for any and all of the indebtedness, obligations and liabilities under all of the principal service agreements and the scope of pledge shall not be limited by the amount of the registered capital of the VIEs. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the equity pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes last priority among creditors. In addition, we have not entered into agreements with our VIEs that pledge the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for the benefit of us or our wholly owned subsidiaries. Consequently, the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities are not secured on behalf of our wholly owned subsidiary, and the amounts owed by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities are not collateralized. As a result, if our Consolidated Affiliated Entities fail to pay any amount due to us under, or otherwise breach, the exclusive business service agreements, we will not be able to directly seize the assets of our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. If the nominee shareholders of the VIEs do not act in the best interests of us when conflicts of interest arise, or if they act in bad faith towards us, they may attempt to cause the our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to transfer or encumber the assets of the Consolidated Affiliated Entities without our authorization. In such a scenario, we may choose to exercise our option under the call option agreements to demand the shareholders of the VIEs to transfer their respective equity interests in the VIEs to a PRC person designated by us, and we may need to resort to litigation in the PRC courts to effect such an equity interests transfer and prevent the transfer or encumbrance of the VIEs’ assets without our authorization. However, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Any failure by our VIEs or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If our VIEs or any of their respective subsidiaries or schools or any of their respective shareholders fails to perform its obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce our rights under the contracts, and rely on legal remedies under the PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of our VIEs were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in these entities to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. All the material agreements under our contractual arrangements, which are summarized under “Item 4.C.—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities”, are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes under the agreements through arbitration in Beijing. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents The legal owners of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The four legal owners of Xueersi Education and Xueersi Network are Mr. Bangxin Zhang, Mr. Yachao Liu, Mr. Yunfeng Bai and Mr. Yundong Cao, and the three legal owners of Beijing Dongfangrenli are Mr. Bangxin Zhang, Mr. Yachao Liu and Mr. Yunfeng Bai. Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu and Mr. Bai are shareholders and directors or officers of TAL Education Group. Mr. Cao is a beneficial owner of TAL Education Group. Mr. Bangxin Zhang, is a director of TAL Education Group and a director of Xueersi Education, Xueersi Network and Beijing Dongfangrenli. The interests of Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu, Mr. Bai and Mr. Cao as beneficial owners of the VIEs may differ from the interests of our company as a whole, since these parties’ respective equity interests in the VIEs may conflict with their respective equity interests in our company. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach, or cause our Consolidated Affiliated Entities to breach, or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. Currently, we do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest Mr. Zhang, Mr. Liu, Mr. Bai and Mr. Cao may encounter in their capacity as nominee shareholders of the VIEs (and, as applicable, as directors of the VIEs), on the one hand, and as beneficial owners of our company (and, as applicable, director and/or officers of our company), on the other hand. We rely on these individuals to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, which provide that directors and officers owe a fiduciary duty to our company that requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the legal owners of the VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including agreements and contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chop or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant Administration of Industry and Commerce. We generally execute legal documents by affixing chops or seals, rather than having the designated legal representatives sign the documents. We have three major types of chops—corporate chops, contract chops and finance chops. We use corporate chops generally for documents to be submitted to government agencies, such as applications for changing business scope, directors or company name, and for legal letters. We use corporate chops or contract chops for executing leases and commercial contracts. We use finance chops generally for making and collecting payments, including, but not limited to issuing invoices. Use of chops must be approved by the responsible departments and follow our internal procedure. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, we generally have them stored in secured locations accessible only to authorized employees. Our designated legal representatives generally do not have access to the chops. Although we monitor such employees and the designated legal representatives, the procedures may not be sufficient to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. There is a risk that our employees or designated legal representatives could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the relevant subsidiary or Consolidated Affiliated Entity with contracts against our interests, as we would be obligated to honor these contracts if the other contracting party acts in good faith in reliance on the apparent authority of our chops or signatures of our legal representatives. If any designated legal representative obtains control of the chop in an effort to obtain control over the relevant entity, we would need to have a shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and to take legal action to seek the return of the chop, apply for a new chop with the relevant authorities, or otherwise seek legal remedies for the legal representative’s violation of the duties to us. If any of the authorized employees or designated legal representatives obtain and misuse or misappropriate our chops and seals or other controlling intangible assets for whatever reason, we could experience disruption to our normal business operations. We may have to take corporate or legal action, which could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. 19 Table of Contents Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be subject to significant limitations on their ability to operate private schools or make payments to related parties, or otherwise be materially and adversely affected by changes in PRC laws governing private education providers. The principal regulations governing private education in China are The Law for Promoting Private Education and The Implementation Rules for The Law for Promoting Private Education. Under these regulations, a private school may elect to be a school that does not require reasonable returns or a school that requires reasonable returns. At the end of each fiscal year, every private school is required to allocate a certain amount to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of the school or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment. In the case of a private school that requires reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of the annual net income of the school, while in the case of a private school that does not require reasonable returns, this amount shall be equivalent to no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, if any. A private school that requires reasonable returns must publicly disclose such election and additional information required under the regulations. A private school shall consider factors such as the school’s tuition, ratio of the funds used for education-related activities to the course fees collected, admission standards and educational quality when determining the percentage of the school’s net income that would be distributed to the investors as reasonable returns. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining “reasonable returns.” In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth clear requirements or restrictions on a private school’s ability to operate its education business based on such school’s status as one that does or does not require reasonable returns. Our schools are registered as schools that require reasonable returns in some cities and as schools that do not require reasonable returns in others. As of the date of this annual report, we have 30 affiliated schools, among which 11 have elected not to require reasonable returns and the remaining 19 have elected to require reasonable returns. The respective sponsor of each school will make such election and determine the amounts to be allocated to each school’s development fund in accordance with PRC laws and regulations. We do not believe that the election to be a school that does or does not require reasonable returns will affect amounts that may be distributed to us by means of different fee payments such as service fees. As a holding company, we rely on dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries, including TAL Beijing. TAL Beijing and its designated affiliates are entitled to receive service fees from the schools according to the relevant exclusive business cooperation agreements. We do not believe that TAL Beijing and its designated affiliates’ right to receive the service fees from the schools will be affected by such election, but if our judgment turns out to be incorrect, TAL Beijing and our other PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us may be materially and adversely impacted. If a school elects to be a school that does not require reasonable return but in fact pays reasonable return to its sponsor, in extreme cases, PRC government authorities have the right to suspend the operations of the relevant school and suspend student enrollment and perhaps even to de-register the operating permits of such schools altogether, which may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contractual arrangements our subsidiaries have entered into with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or our Consolidated Affiliated Entities owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our wholly owned subsidiaries in China and our Consolidated Affiliated Entities do not represent an arm’s-length price and consequently adjust our Consolidated Affiliated Entities’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities for unpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our Consolidated Affiliated Entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 20 Table of Contents If any of our PRC subsidiaries or Consolidated Affiliated Entities becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy certain important assets, which could reduce the size of our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenue and the market price of our ADSs. We currently conduct our operations in China mainly through contractual arrangements with our Consolidated Affiliated Entities. As part of these arrangements, our Consolidated Affiliated Entities hold operating permits and licenses and some of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. If any of these entities goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions in a civil law system may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always consistent, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the available legal protections. In addition, the PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing or enforcing statutory rules and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we may enjoy in the PRC than under some more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may affect our judgment on the relevance of legal requirements and our decisions on the measures and actions to be taken to fully comply therewith and may affect our ability to enforce our contractual or tort rights. In addition, the regulatory uncertainties may be exploited through unmerited legal actions or threats in an attempt to extract payments or benefits from us. Such uncertainties may therefore increase our operating expenses and costs, and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to PRC regulatory restrictions on after-school services could have a material adverse effect on us. In 2009, the MOE, together with a few other PRC government agencies, issued implementation rules on administration of education-related fee collection, which provide, among other things, that schools that are part of the compulsory education system are not allowed to charge students additional fees for any type of after-school tutoring classes, and that public schools and their teachers, whether or not in cooperation with private schools, are prohibited from offering any type of after-school tutoring or training classes for a fee outside the school. Private schools, which are not part of the compulsory education system, generally are permitted to offer after-school tutoring services pursuant to their private school operating permits issued by the relevant PRC government authorities pursuant to the Law for Promoting Private Education and implementation rules promulgated thereunder. However, several provincial government agencies issued notices or rules applicable in their respective provinces expressly prohibiting even private schools from offering after-school tutoring classes to primary and secondary school students. Among the areas where we offer after-school tutoring services, local governments in Shanghai and Tianjin issued notices in 2004 and 2005, respectively, prohibiting private schools from offering after-school tutoring services to primary and secondary school students. Nevertheless, we are not aware of any instances in Shanghai or Tianjin where the government authorities took actions enforcing the aforementioned notices; nor have we received any notices, warnings or inquiries from these government authorities with respect to our tutoring services. In February 2013, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission issued a Notice on Reducing Schoolwork-Related Stress on Students in Primary and Secondary Schools, which, among other things, strictly prohibits private schools from offering after-school tutoring classes to primary and secondary school students. This notice came into effect in March 2013, but due to its relatively new status, there are uncertainties pertaining to its implementation. The aforementioned notices do not provide any monetary penalties for violations and thus we are not able to quantify the penalties that we may be subject to if we are deemed not to be in compliance with these notices. We are not aware of any imminent risks in connection with the aforementioned notices. However, since PRC regulatory authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing rules and regulations and that regulatory enforcements can be inconsistent, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future be subject to the above mentioned regulations, fined or otherwise penalized by government authorities for offering such classes, in which case our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents We are required to obtain various operating licenses and permits and to make registrations and filings for our tutoring services in China; failure to comply with these requirements may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are required to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits and fulfill registration and filing requirements in order to operate our tutoring service business. For instance, a duly approved private school will be granted a private school operating permit, and shall be registered with the Ministry of Civil Affairs or its local bureaus as a privately run non-enterprise institution. In addition, learning centers of schools must make filings with the MOE or its local bureaus. As of the date of this annual report, we have 274 learning centers in operation, of which 180 learning centers offer Xueersi Peiyou small-class tutoring services and four learning centers offer Mobby small-class tutoring services. Among the 184 learning centers, 36 learning centers have not completed filing requirements for permits or registrations. These 36 learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 9.2% of our total net revenues for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014. If we fail to comply with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of any gains derived from our non-compliant operations or the suspension of our non-compliant operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are in the process of preparing filings and applying for permits for these learning centers but do not expect to complete all such filings and obtain all such permits in the near term. We have been taking steps to meet these requirements, but there is no assurance that our efforts will result in full compliance given the significant amount of discretion PRC government authorities have in interpreting, implementing and enforcing rules and regulations and due to other factors beyond our control. For example, Shenzhen Municipal Education Bureau ceased accepting applications for the establishment of new private schools between the year of 2006 and December 7, 2010. While we were preparing the application to the Shenzhen educational authorities for the operating permits in Shenzhen, two of our learning centers received notices from the local city administrative departments in March 2012 which required us to obtain the operating permits before we could continue our business in Shenzhen. Revenues from the Shenzhen area contributed 6.3% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014. We later received the private school operating permit for our school in Shenzhen from Shenzhen Municipal Education Bureau in August 2013 and completed the registration with the Shenzhen City Civil Affairs Office in November 2013. For the nine Xueersi Peiyou learning centers operated by our school in Shenzhen, we have completed the required registration with the Shenzhen Education Bureau. We have been making efforts to ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations in establishing new learning centers, as well as to remediate non-compliances relating to our existing learning centers. In addition, our business and legal teams follow an internal guideline to make necessary filings and obtain necessary permits for new learning centers on a timely basis, and final business decisions are made taking into account the business and legal risks and uncertainties in our expansion plan. However, if we fail to comply with the applicable legal requirements concerning obtaining and maintaining applicable licenses and permits and fulfilling applicable registration and filing requirements to operate our after-school tutoring business, including any failure to cure non compliances in a timely manner, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of the gains derived from our noncompliant operations or the suspension of our noncompliant operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the relevant PRC regulatory authorities subsequently determine that personalized premium services must be operated through schools or for-profit training institutions that meet certain legal requirements, our personalized premium services business would be exposed to increased risks, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Substantially all of the personalized premium services we offer in Beijing are offered through Huanqiu Zhikang and Zhixuesi Beijing, our wholly owned subsidiaries, both of which are foreign-invested companies under PRC laws. Huanqiu Zhikang and Zhixuesi Beijing together with their branches have obtained business licenses from the Beijing Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC, expressly permitting them to conduct “educational consulting services,” which we believe covers our personalized premium services in Beijing and are not under the jurisdiction of the Beijing Municipal Education Commission based on telephone inquiries we and our PRC counsel have made to the Beijing Municipal Education Commission. For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, revenues from the personalized premium services of Huanqiu Zhikang and Zhixuesi Beijing contributed approximately 13.3% of our total net revenues. 22 Table of Contents In cities other than Beijing, our personalized premium services are offered mostly through the subsidiaries of our VIEs, and most of these subsidiaries have obtained business licenses from the local AIC office permitting them to conduct consulting services. However, some of the subsidiaries of our VIEs have not obtained business licenses that meet regulatory requirements. For example, Shanghai local educational authority and local AIC published provisional measures in June 2013 regarding the registration and management of for-profit educational institutions to provide the conditions and procedures for setting up for-profit private training institutions in the form of a company and further clarify that other types of companies shall not carry out educational consulting or one-on-one services. These provisional measures became effective on July 20, 2013 and will be in force for two years. We offered personalized premium services in some districts in Shanghai through companies with their business license not permitting them to conduct such consulting services and we have not yet set up companies in Shanghai to meet regulatory requirements in accordance with the aforementioned rules. In addition, six learning centers in Xi’an are operated by a subsidiary of a VIE without the scope of “educational consulting services” for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, revenues from the personalized premium services of such subsidiaries of our VIEs in Shanghai and Xi’an contributed approximately 1.4% of our total net revenues. We believe that our personalized premium services fall within the scope of “for-profit training activities” and are not “educational activities” that must be under the jurisdiction of the educational authorities and thus offered through schools or educational institutions. However, the differences between “educational activities,” on the one hand, and “for-profit training activities” and “educational consulting services,” on the other hand, remain unclear under applicable PRC laws and regulations. The Law for Promoting Private Education provides that “educational activities,” which are required to be conducted through schools or educational institutions, shall be regulated by the Ministry of Education whereas “for-profit training activities” shall be regulated by the AIC in accordance with separate regulations to be issued by the State Council. To date, the State Council has not promulgated any regulations with respect to “for-profit training activities.” In July 2010, the MOE issued the National Guidance on Mid- to Long-term Education Reform and Development, which is the first guidance expressly encouraging the applicable PRC government authorities to classify, through implementing rules or regulations, activities as “for-profit training activities” to be conducted only by for-profit entities or “non-profit training or educational activities” to be conducted only by certain schools. However, to date, the AIC and MOE have not issued any such rules or regulations, and in practice, regulators in different local jurisdictions may still have different views and administrative policies on one-on-one tutoring activities. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the relevant government authorities will reach the same conclusion in the future as we have that our personalized premium services fall within the scope of “for-profit training activities” and are not “educational activities.” If the relevant PRC regulatory authorities subsequently determine that our personalized premium services must be operated through schools or educational institutions, as opposed to through companies, or if the local AIC subsequently determines that our personalized premium services must be operated through companies that hold business licenses to cover for-profit training services or educational consulting services, we may be required to restructure our operations to offer personalized premium services through the schools owned by our VIEs. We may also be subject to fines of up to RMB100,000 for each of our subsidiaries that offers personalized premium services, suspension of our personalized premium services or other penalties, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy in China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: 23 Table of Contents · degree of government involvement; · level of development; · rate of economic growth; · control of foreign exchange rates and currency conversion; · access to financing; and · allocation of resources. Although China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the 1970s, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economy through resource allocation, foreign exchange control, monetary policies and administrative regulations of certain industries and entities. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the reliance on market forces to promote economic reform, reduce state ownership of productive assets and establish corporate governance structures in business enterprises. Nevertheless, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the government could materially and adversely affect our business. While the PRC economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the PRC economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that any slowdowns in growth will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our ADSs and common shares. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities, which are limited liability companies established in China. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. PRC companies are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their statutory surplus reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, PRC companies may allocate a portion of their after-tax profit to their staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of their boards of directors. Our PRC subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities historically have not allocated any of their after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, since there is no legal requirement to do so, but they may nevertheless decide to set aside such funds in the future. There is no maximum amount of after-tax profit that a company may contribute to such funds. Moreover, each of our affiliated schools is required to allocate certain amount of profits to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of school facilities or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment at the end of each fiscal year. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Private Education—The Law for Promoting Private Education and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education” for a discussion on the requirements for private schools to make allocations to school development funds. Any direct or indirect limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions at the holding company level, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC laws and regulations may limit the use of the proceeds we received from our initial public offering for our investment or operations in the PRC. In utilizing the proceeds we received from our initial public offering in October 2010 or from other financing activities, as an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may (i) make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, (ii) establish new PRC subsidiaries and make capital contributions to these new PRC subsidiaries, (iii) make loans to our PRC subsidiaries or our VIEs, or (iv) acquire offshore entities with business operations in China in an offshore transaction. However, most of these uses are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: 24 Table of Contents · capital contributions to our subsidiaries in China, whether existing ones or newly established ones, must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local bureaus and must also be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local bureaus; · loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE, or its local bureaus; and · loans by us to our Consolidated Affiliated Entities, which are domestic PRC entities, must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and must also be registered with the SAFE or its local bureaus. In addition, on August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of its capital contribution in foreign currency into Renminbi. It requires that Renminbi converted from foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the relevant government authority and may not be used to make equity investments in China, unless specifically provided otherwise. Moreover, the approved use of such Renminbi funds may not be changed without approval from SAFE. Renminbi funds converted from foreign exchange may not be used to repay loans in Renminbi if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Any violation of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines. We expect that if we convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi pursuant to Circular 142, our use of Renminbi funds will be for purposes within the approved business scope of our PRC subsidiaries. However, we may not be able to use such Renminbi funds to make equity investments in the PRC through our PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, the SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or Circular 59, which, among other things, requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents, or otherwise approved by the board of directors. Accordingly, as we apply with the SAFE to convert the proceeds from our initial public offering in October 2010 into Renminbi funds for use of such funds in the PRC, they need to be used in accordance with the section entitled “Use of Proceeds” in our initial public offering final prospectus, or when the proposed use of the proceeds is inconsistent with what is set forth in the section entitled “Use of Proceeds”, we need to submit the board resolution in relation to such proposed use of proceeds to the SAFE and the settlement of foreign exchange for such use of proceeds shall comply with the regulations of the PRC in relation to foreign exchange. We expect that PRC laws and regulations may continue to limit our use of proceeds from our initial public offering or from other financing sources. There are no costs associated with registering loans or capital contributions with relevant PRC government authorities, other than nominal processing charges. Under PRC laws and regulations, the PRC government authorities are required to process such approvals or registrations or deny our application within a prescribed period which is usually less than 90 days. The actual time taken, however, may be longer due to administrative delay. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future plans to use the U.S. dollar proceeds we receive from our initial public offering for our investment and operations in China. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the relevant local branch of the SAFE before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interest in, PRC companies. In addition, any PRC resident that is the beneficial owner of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease in its capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. Any failure to comply with the above registration requirements could result in PRC subsidiaries being prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent companies, offshore parent companies being restricted in their ability to contribute additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries, and other liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. 25 Table of Contents We believe that all of our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents have completed their required registrations with the SAFE in accordance with Circular 75 prior to, and immediately after, the completion of our initial public offering in October 2010. Our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents have updated their registrations with the SAFE in accordance with Circular 75 to reflect the establishment of some new subsidiaries, name changes to some of our subsidiaries and changes to their shareholding. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with Circular 75; nor can we ensure you that their registrations, if they choose to apply, will be successful. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with these requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans (including proceeds from our initial public offering in October 2010) to our China operations, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The M&A rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely the Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC and SAFE, jointly adopted regulations, commonly referred to as the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in China could adversely affect our overall results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, the statutory enterprise income tax rate is 25%, except where a special preferential rate applies. Our VIE, Xueersi Education, was qualified as a “High and New Technology Enterprise,” under the EIT Law effective January 1, 2008 and therefore was qualified for a preferential tax rate of 15%. In addition, since Xueersi Education is located in a high and new technology industrial zone in Beijing and qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise, it was entitled to a three-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2006 to 2008 and a further tax reduction to a rate of 7.5% from calendar year 2009 to 2011. From January 1, 2011, Xueersi Education is eligible for re-examination of High and New Technology Enterprise status at a preferential tax rate of 15% until the end of calendar year of 2013 and is currently in the process of reapplying for qualification as a “High and New Technology Enterprise”. Our wholly owned subsidiary, TAL Beijing, was qualified as a “Newly Established Software Enterprise” under the EIT Law and therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2009 to 2010 and a further tax reduction to 50% of the applicable rate from calendar year 2011 to 2013. We are currently in the process of applying for qualification as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” for TAL Beijing. Having qualified as a “Newly Established Software Enterprise” under the EIT Law, our wholly owned subsidiary, Yidu Huida, is entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2011 to 2012 and a further tax reduction to 50% of the applicable rate from calendar year 2013 to 2015. Our wholly owned subsidiary Beijing Xintang Sichuang was also qualified as a “Newly Established Software Enterprise” under the EIT Law and is therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax from calendar year 2013 to 2014 and a further reduction to a tax rate of 12.5% from calendar year 2015 to 2017. 26 Table of Contents On April 21, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, issued Circular 157, Further Clarification on Implementation of Preferential EIT Rate during Transition Periods, or Circular 157. Circular 157 seeks to provide additional guidance on the interaction of certain preferential tax rates under the transitional rules of the EIT Law. Prior to Circular 157, we interpreted the law to mean that if a High and New Technology Enterprise was in a tax holiday period that provided for “two-year exemption plus three-year half rate reduction” or “five-year exemption plus five-year half rate” or other tax exemptions and reductions, where it was entitled to a 50% reduction in the tax rate and was also entitled to a 15% rate of tax due to its High and New Technology Enterprise status under the EIT Law, then it was entitled to pay tax at the rate of 7.5%. Circular 157 appears to have the effect that such an entity is entitled to pay tax at the lower of 15% and 50% of the standard PRC tax rate, which is currently 25%. Based on the interpretation of Circular 157 from the relevant local tax authority, we believe that entities that were qualified for “3-year exemption plus 3-year half rate” tax holiday as High and New Technology Enterprises and were registered in the Zhongguancun High and New Technology Industrial Zone of Beijing were eligible to pay income tax at a rate of 7.5%. Since Xueersi Education enjoyed a “3-year exemption plus 3-year half rate” and was a High and New Technology Enterprise registered in the Zhongguancun High and New Technology Industrial Zone of Beijing, Xueersi Education paid income tax at the rate of 7.5% through calendar year 2011, and from January 1, 2012 to the end of calendar year of 2013 Xueersi Education had a preferential tax rate of 15% due to its having passed the annual re-examination of High and New Technology Enterprise status. We cannot assure you, however, that the tax authorities will not in the future change their position on our preferential tax treatments or that our subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities will be able to pass their respective annual re-examination and obtain preferential tax treatment. Further, the preferential tax treatments granted to us by government authorities may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which will increase our income tax expenses and in turn decrease our net income. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, although the dividends paid to one resident enterprise from another may be qualified as “tax-exempt income.” The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. A circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management body” located within China if all of the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function are mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) at least half of the enterprise’s directors with voting right or senior management reside in the PRC. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation issued a bulletin on August 3, 2011, effective as of September 1, 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of the above circular. The bulletin clarified certain matters relating to resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of a PRC tax resident determination certificate from a resident PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the PRC-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise. Although both the circular and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those by PRC individuals, the determination criteria set forth in the circular and administration clarification made in the bulletin may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and the administration measures should be implemented, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. 27 Table of Contents As substantially all of our management members are based in China, it remains unclear how the tax residency rule will apply to our case. We are not aware of any offshore holding companies with a similar corporate structure as ours ever having been deemed to be PRC “resident enterprises” by the PRC tax authorities. We believe that none of our offshore holding companies should be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes. However, as the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities, there are uncertainties and risks associated with this issue. If the PRC tax authorities determine that any of our offshore holding companies are “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is a “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that dividends paid to TAL Education Group from our PRC subsidiaries through TAL Hong Kong, or dividends paid from our PRC subsidiaries to Yidu Technology Group, or Yidu Cayman, through Yidu Technology Group Limited, or Yidu Hong Kong, would qualify as “tax-exempt income” and will not be subject to withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, the “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC and enterprise shareholders from transferring our notes, shares or ADSs, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. This could have the effect of increasing our and our shareholders’ effective income tax rates and may require us to deduct withholding tax from any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. In addition to the uncertainties regarding how the “resident enterprise” classification may apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the Arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, dividends declared after January 1, 2008 and distributed to our Hong Kong subsidiaries by our PRC subsidiaries are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that our Hong Kong subsidiaries are deemed by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be “non- PRC resident enterprises” under the EIT Law and hold at least 25% of the equity interest of our PRC subsidiaries. The State Administration for Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement on October 27, 2009, or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a jurisdiction with tax treaties with the PRC is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under PRC tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must engage in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Although we may use our Hong Kong subsidiaries as a platform to expand our business in the future, our Hong Kong subsidiaries currently do not engage in any substantive business activities and thus it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries may not be regarded as “beneficial owners” for the purposes of SAT Circular 601 and the dividends they receive from our PRC subsidiaries would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. We face uncertainties with respect to application of the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfer of Non-PRC Resident Enterprises. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, where a foreign investor transfers the equity interests of a resident enterprise indirectly via disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an “Indirect Transfer,” and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor shall report the Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an “abusive arrangement” in order to avoid PRC tax, it may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the competent tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Although several issues related to Circular 698 were clarified through the Public Notice dated March 28, 2011 by the State Administration of Taxation, there is little guidance and practical experience regarding the application of this tax circular. In recent cases, some intermediary holding companies were actually looked through by the PRC tax authorities, and consequently the non-PRC resident investors were deemed to have transferred the PRC subsidiaries and PRC corporate taxes were assessed accordingly. It is possible that we or our non-PRC resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we or our non-PRC resident investors should not be taxed under Circular 698, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-PRC resident investors’ investment in us. 28 Table of Contents We face risks and uncertainties with respect to the licensing requirement for Internet audio-video programs. On December 20, 2007, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or SAPPRFT (formerly known as the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT) and the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII, issued the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that no entities or individuals may provide Internet audio-video program services without a “License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network” issued by SAPPRFT or its local bureaus or completing the relevant registration with SAPPRFT or its local bureaus, and only entities wholly owned or controlled by the PRC government may engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transmission to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, or the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. On February 3, 2008, SAPPRFT and MII jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, during which SAPPRFT and MII officials indicated that providers of audio-video program services established prior to the promulgation date of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can re-register with the relevant government authorities to continue their current business operations. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirmed the above guidelines. There are still significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in particular, the scope of “Internet Audio-Video Programs.” Furthermore, on April 1, 2010, SAPPRFT promulgated the Test Implementation of the Tentative Categories of Internet Audio-Visual Program Services, or the Categories, which clarified the scope of Internet audio-video programs services. According to the Categories, there are four categories of Internet audio-visual program services which are further divided into seventeen sub-categories. The third sub-category to the second category covers the making and editing of certain specialized audio-video programs concerning, among other things, educational content, and broadcasting such content to the general public online. We began offering online courses in 2010 www.xueersi.com, and in the fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2013 and February 28, 2014, revenues derived from audio-video program services offered through www.xueersi.com that may be subject to the Audio-Video Program Measures were 3.2%, 3.1% and 3.0%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In the course of offering online tutoring services, we transmit our audio-video educational courses and programs through the Internet only to enrolled students, not to the general public. The limited scope of our audience distinguishes us from general online audio-video broadcasting companies, such as companies operating user-generated content websites. In addition, we do not provide audio-video program uploading and transmission services. As a result, we believe that we are not subject to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. However, there is no further official or publicly available interpretation of these definitions, especially the scope of “Internet audio-video program service.” If the government authorities determine that our provision of online tutoring services falls within the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, we may not be able to obtain the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network. If this occurs, we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content. 29 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the RMB fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under our current corporate structure, our income will be primarily derived from a share of the earnings from our PRC subsidiaries. Revenues of our PRC subsidiaries are all denominated in Renminbi. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for any PRC company, dividends can be declared and paid only out of the retained earnings of that company under PRC law. Furthermore, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Specifically, under the existing exchange restrictions, without a prior approval of the SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our subsidiaries in China may be used to pay dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to TAL Education Group through our Hong Kong subsidiaries and pay employees of our PRC subsidiaries who are located outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. With a prior approval from SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities may be used to pay off debt in a currency other than the Renminbi owed by our subsidiaries and Consolidated Affiliated Entities to entities outside China, and make other capital expenditures outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 30 Table of Contents The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Employee participants in our share incentive plan who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We also face regulatory uncertainties in China that could restrict our ability to grant restricted shares or share options to our employees who are PRC citizens. To implement the Administrative Rule on Foreign Exchange Matters of Individuals promulgated by the People’s Bank of China and its related implementing rule provided by SAFE, on March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Incentive Plan and Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, or Circular 78. For any plans adopted by an overseas listed company that are covered by Circular 78, Circular 78 requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to register, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, with the SAFE or its local branch. In addition, Circular 78 also requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to follow a series of requirements, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas, opening of special bank accounts and filings with the SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock options. On January 7, 2008, the SAFE issued Notice on Relinquishing Power of Approving the First-time Application of Foreign Exchange Purchase Quotas, Opening of Special Bank Accounts. According to this notice, SAFE’s local branches at provincial level have the authority to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in connection with equity compensation plans or incentive plans. Pursuant to the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in a Stock Incentive Plan of an Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, or Circular 7, which terminated both Circular 78 and the Notice on Relinquishing Power of Approving the First-time Application of Foreign Exchange Purchase Quotas, Opening of Special Bank Accounts issued by the SAFE on January 7, 2008, a qualified PRC agent (which could be the PRC subsidiary of the overseas-listed company) is required to file, on behalf of “domestic individuals” (both PRC residents and non-PRC residents who reside in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year, excluding the foreign diplomatic personnel and representatives of international organizations) who are granted shares or share options by the overseas-listed company according to its stock incentive plan, an application with the SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan, and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the stock purchase or stock option exercise. Such PRC individuals’ foreign exchange income received from the sale of stocks and dividends distributed by the overseas listed company and any other income shall be fully remitted into a collective foreign currency account in the PRC opened and managed by the PRC domestic agent before distribution to such individuals. In addition, such domestic individuals must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options and their purchase and sale of stock. The PRC domestic agent also needs to update registration with the SAFE within three months after the overseas-listed company materially changes its stock incentive plan or make any new stock incentive plans. 31 Table of Contents Prior to the issuance of Circular 7, we received approval from the SAFE’s Beijing branch in January 2012 in regards to applications we had submitted on behalf of certain of our employees who hold a significant number of restricted shares. Upon the issuance of Circular 7, we renewed our registration on behalf of these employees in accordance with Circular 7 as Circular 78 ceased to be applicable for such registration. From time to time, we need to apply for or to update our registration with the SAFE or its local bureaus on behalf of our employees who are granted options or registered shares under our share incentive plan or material changes in our current share incentive plan. However, we may not always be able to make applications or update our registration on behalf of our employees who hold our restricted shares in compliance with Circular 7, nor can we ensure you that such applications or update of registration will be successful. If we or the participants of our share incentive plan who are PRC citizens fail to comply with Circular 7, we and/or such participants of our share incentive plan may be subject to fines and legal sanctions, there may be additional restrictions on the ability of such participants to exercise their stock options or remit proceeds gained from sale of their stock into the PRC, and we may be prevented from further granting restricted shares or from granting options under our share incentive plan to our employees who are PRC citizens. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms, (including our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the CSRC. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the Commission for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the U.S. Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the New York Stock Exchange on October 20, 2010, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from $7.3 to $25.61 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on May 9, 2014 was $23.15 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, · changes in the economic performance or market valuation of other education companies, · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, · addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel, · detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry, · intellectual property litigation, and · general economic, regulatory or political conditions in China and the U.S. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Further, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our ADS price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted restricted shares under our share incentive plan. Our dual-class voting structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our common shares are divided into Class A common shares and Class B common shares. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. We issued Class A common shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering in October 2010. As part of the redesignation of our capital structure at the time of our initial public offering, all of our existing shareholders as of September 29, 2010, including our founders, received Class B common shares, and our outstanding preferred shares were automatically converted into Class B common shares immediately prior to the completion of our initial public offering. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. Each Class B common share is convertible into one Class A common share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A common shares are not convertible into Class B common shares under any circumstances. 33 Table of Contents Upon any transfer of Class B common shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B common shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A common shares. In addition, if at any time, any of the persons who held Class B common shares immediately before our initial public offering and their affiliates collectively own less than 5% of the total number of the issued and outstanding Class B common shares, each issued and outstanding Class B common share owned by such Class B holder shall be automatically and immediately converted into one share of Class A common share, and no Class B common shares shall be issued by us thereafter. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, As of April 30, 2014, holders of our Class B common shares (excluding any Class A common shares such holder may hold in the form of ADSs) collectively hold approximately 91.0% the voting power of our outstanding shares and have considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and their affiliated entities. As of April 30, 2014, our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 46.5% of our total outstanding shares, representing 82.8% of our total voting power. These shareholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions and they may not act in the best interests of other minority shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities depends, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the K-12 after-school tutoring market in China in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales or the expectation of substantial sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur may cause the market price of our ADSs to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. We have Class A and Class B common shares outstanding, including Class A common shares represented by ADSs. All of our ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Class A common shares not represented by ADS, such as grants of restricted Class A common shares which have vested, and Class B common shares are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. To the extent shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, several of our shareholders have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration of these shares. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. 34 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A common shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our Class A common shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our common shares and ADSs may be diluted. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may not receive distributions on our common shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on common shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 35 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China against us or our management. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, since we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of the Cayman Islands, it is difficult for you to bring an action against us based upon PRC laws in the event that you believe that your rights as a shareholder have been infringed. 36 Table of Contents 