Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors address the material risks and uncertainties concerning our business and an investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business or adversely affect the value of our common stock. If any of the risks discussed in this report were to occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations Our business is dependent upon our operators successfully operating their businesses, and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully and profitably operate our business. We depend on our operators to operate the properties we own in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties in a manner so as not to jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our operators to fulfill their obligations under our leases may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations, including any other SNFs or other properties or businesses they may acquire or operate. Cash flow generated by certain individual properties may not be sufficient for an operator to meet its obligations to us. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness could be limited if any of our major operators were unable to meet their obligations to us or failed to renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire, or if we were unable to lease or re-lease our properties on 12 Table of Contents economically favorable terms. While we have generally been successful in the past in transitioning properties from one operator to another where properties are underperforming, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify and successfully transition underperforming properties going forward. In addition, from time to time we may recognize straight-line rent write-offs in connection with transitioning properties. Our portfolio is predominantly comprised of SNFs. As a result of our focus on SNFs, any changes affecting SNFs or SNF operators, including changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, could have an adverse impact on our operators’ revenues, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, if conditions in the SNF industry decline, we may be required to evaluate our properties for impairments or write-downs, which could result in charges that might be significant. Certain operators account for a significant percentage of our rental income, and the failure of any of these operators to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our rental income and net income. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 14.0% of our contractual rent was from Daybreak, which operates 52 of our properties in Texas, approximately 13.5% of our contractual rent was from Saber, which operates 30 of our properties in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Florida and approximately 8.4% of our contractual rent was from EmpRes, which operates 17 of our properties in California, Oregon, Nevada, Montana, and Washington. No other operator generated more than 7.1% of our total contractual rent as of December 31, 2013. The failure or inability of any of these operators, or of other operators that account for a significant percentage of our rental income, to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our rental income and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay and cause our stock price to decline. The geographic concentration of our properties could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory or reimbursement changes or acts of nature in those areas, resulting in a decrease in our revenues or otherwise negatively impacting our results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, the three states from which we derived the largest amount of contractual rent were Texas (17.5%), Ohio (14.0%) and California (12.8%). As a result of these concentrations, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to Medicaid, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for long-term care services in these states could have an adverse impact on our operators’ revenues, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations and may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions or investment opportunities, or to integrate successfully any acquired properties without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, would slow our growth, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price. Our ability to acquire properties successfully may be constrained by the following significant risks: • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions; and • failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future investments necessary to grow our business or meet maturing commitments. In order to qualify as a REIT under U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (computed without regard to our deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains). Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all of our future capital needs, including capital needs to make investments and acquisitions and to satisfy or refinance maturing commitments. 13 Table of Contents As a result, we expect to rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to expand our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. We may not be in position to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities for growth in the event that we are unable to access the capital markets on a timely basis or we are only able to obtain financing on unfavorable terms. We had approximately $681.2 million of indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2013, and our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and, as a result, our operations. We have substantial indebtedness and we may increase our indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had total indebtedness of $681.2 million outstanding, including $400.0 million of indebtedness with respect to our 2019 Notes (excluding $2.8 million of net debt premium balance related to the Notes), $250 million of indebtedness with respect to our 2021 Notes, $20.0 million of indebtedness with respect to our Revolving Credit Facility, and $11.2 million of other indebtedness (excluding $2.4 million of net debt premium). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Indebtedness Outstanding” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business; • increase our cost of borrowing; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business; • limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; • limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, which may cause us to lose our qualification as a REIT under the Code or to become subject to federal corporate income tax on any REIT taxable income that we do not distribute; and • place us at a potential competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Further, we have the ability to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt. If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. Risk factors related to our credit ratings. We plan to manage the Company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell properties in our portfolio is limited. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. In addition, our properties are special purpose properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Transfers of operations of SNFs and other healthcare properties are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. To the extent we are unable to sell any properties for our book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. We may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our operators’ insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial position and our cash flow. Under the terms of our leases, our operators are required to maintain comprehensive general liability, fire, flood, earthquake, boiler and machinery, nursing home or long-term care professional liability and extended coverage insurance with respect to our properties with policy specifications, limits and deductibles set forth in the leases or other written agreements between us and the operator. However, our properties may be adversely affected by casualty losses which exceed insurance coverages and reserves. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, the property. Even if it were practicable to restore the property to its condition prior to the damage caused by a major casualty, the operations of the affected property would likely be suspended for a considerable period of time. In the event of any substantial loss affecting a property, disputes over insurance claims could arise. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. As part of our impairment evaluation during 2013 and 2012, we recorded a charge of approximately $0.5 million and $11.1 million, respectively. As an owner of real property, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real property, such as us, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal, remediation or release of hazardous or toxic substances (including materials containing asbestos) at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons or adjacent property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances and liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of an operator at the property. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner’s liability therefore could exceed the value of the property and/or the assets of the owner. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect our operators’ ability to attract additional residents, our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. Although our leases require the operator to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be limited. For instance, some of our leases do not require the operator to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before the operator took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure you that any such operator would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were to be liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our operators, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon our key employees and our failure to retain or attract sufficient numbers of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team and other employees. As of December 31, 2013, we had 28 full-time employees and, as a result, the loss of even a small number of our employees may have an adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract, hire and train skilled management and other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Consequently, we may not be successful in retaining, attracting, hiring, and training the people we need, which would seriously impede our ability to implement our business strategy. 15 Table of Contents Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. Risks Relating to Our Operators and the Skilled Nursing Facility Industry Our operators’ failure to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our operators are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing laws. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and regulations cannot be predicted. We have no direct control over our operators’ ability to meet the numerous federal, state and local regulatory requirements. The failure of any of our operators to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In particular: • Licensing and Certification. Our operators and facilities are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state, and local authorities and are periodically surveyed by them to confirm compliance. Failure to obtain licensure or loss or suspension of licensure or certification may prevent a facility from operating or result in a suspension of reimbursement payments until all licensure or certification issues have been resolved and the necessary licenses or certification are obtained or reinstated. If an operator does not continue to meet all regulatory requirements, that operator may lose its ability to provide or bill and receive payment for healthcare services. In such event, revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. Transfers of operations of SNFs and other healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. • Certificate of Need. Some states require that SNFs obtain governmental approval, in the form of a Certificate of Need, or CON, or similar certification that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services or certain capital expenditures. The CON laws and regulations may restrict our ability to add new facilities or expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain our ability to lease a particular property to a new operator. • Medicare and Medicaid Certification. A significant portion of the revenues of our operators that operate SNFs is derived from participation in government-funded reimbursement programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. Failure to maintain certification to participate in these programs could result in a loss of funding from such programs. Loss of certification could cause the revenues of our operators to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. Medicare and Medicaid laws also require operators of SNFs to comply with extensive standards governing operations. • Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations. There are various highly complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referrals, financial relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including criminal provisions that prohibit financial inducements for referrals, filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare and Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. All healthcare providers, including SNFs, are subject to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. SNFs are also subject to the Federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on kickbacks, physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs, and may also apply to private payors under state laws. Violations of these laws subject persons and entities to termination from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs or result in the imposition of treble damages and fines or other penalties. SNFs may also experience an increase in medical record reviews from a host of government agencies and contractors, including the Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, the Department of Justice, Zone Program Integrity Contractors, and Recovery Audit Contractors. These reviews may increase in light of a November 2012 report from the OIG, which said that SNFs inappropriately received $1.5 billion in Medicare payments in 2009. 16 Table of Contents • Other Laws. Other laws that impact how our operators conduct their operations include: federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality and security of patient health information; state and local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws generally affecting our operators’ management of property and equipment and how our operators generally conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety, and environmental laws; federal and state laws affecting assisted living facilities mandating quality of services and care, and quality of food service; resident rights (including abuse and neglect laws); and health standards set by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”), impose extensive requirements on the way in which certain entities, including SNFs, use, disclose, and safeguard protected health information (as that term is defined under HIPAA), including requirements to protect the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of electronic PHI. Many of these obligations were expanded under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinic Health Act of 2009 and the regulations promulgated thereunder ( “HITECH”). In order to comply with HIPAA and HITECH, covered entities often must undertake significant operational and technical implementation efforts. Operators also may face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical records, personal health information about individuals, or protected health information. HITECH strengthened the HHS Secretary’s authority to impose civil money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HITECH requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action. In October 2009, the Office for Civil Rights (“OCR”) issued an interim final rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act, increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement or prohibition to $1.5 million. Higher penalties may accrue for violations of multiple requirements or prohibitions. HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to criminal penalties. Additionally, on January 25, 2013, OCR promulgated a final rule that expands the applicability of and requirements under HIPAA and HITECH and strengthens the government’s ability to enforce these laws. Generally, covered entities and business associates were required to come into compliance with the final rule by September 23, 2013, though certain exceptions may apply. We cannot predict the effect additional costs to comply with these laws may have on the expenses of our operators and their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Legislative and Regulatory Developments. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends PPACA, or, together with PPACA, the Health Reform Laws, and the June 28, 2012, United States Supreme Court ruling upholding the individual mandate of the Health Reform Laws and partially invalidating the expansion of Medicaid (further discussed below), may have a significant impact on Medicare, Medicaid, other federal healthcare programs, and private insurers, which could impact the reimbursement amounts received by SNFs and other healthcare providers. The Health Reform Laws could have a substantial and material adverse effect on all parties directly or indirectly involved in the healthcare system. Together, the Health Reform Laws make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. healthcare system undertaken since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid and contain various provisions that may directly impact us or our operators. These new laws include a large number of health-related provisions that are scheduled to take effect over the next several years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Because all of our properties are used as healthcare properties, we will be impacted by the risks associated with the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform. While the expansion of healthcare coverage may result in some additional demand for services provided by operators, reimbursement levels may be lower than the costs required to provide such services, which could materially adversely affect the ability of operators to generate profits and pay rent under their lease agreements with us and thereby could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse penalty provisions that could apply to our operators in the event of one or more violations of the federal healthcare regulatory laws. Furthermore, regulatory proposals and rules are released on an ongoing basis that may have an impact on the healthcare system in general and the skilled nursing and long-term care industries in particular. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future healthcare reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ property or business. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. In addition, despite the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Health Reform Laws, the House of Representatives has voted multiple times to repeal or dismantle the Health Reform Laws in full. We cannot predict whether any of these or future attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would have on our operators and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our operators depend on reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced, which could cause our operators’ revenues to decline and affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The ability of our operators to generate revenue and profit influences the underlying value of our properties. Revenues of our operators are generally derived from payments for patient care. Sources of such payments for SNFs include Medicare, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers and the patients themselves. Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as numerous private insurance and managed care plans, generally require participating providers to accept government-determined reimbursement levels as payment in full for services rendered, without regard to a facility’s charges. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements for services provided by our operators, have in the past and could in the future result in a substantial reduction in our operators’ revenues. For example, beginning in 2012, SNFs were subject to a productivity adjustment, which means that the payment rates for SNFs may 17 Table of Contents decrease from one year to the next. Additionally, although the Health Reform Laws delayed implementation of the Resource Utilization Group, Version Four, or RUG-IV, which revises the payment classification system for SNFs, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 repealed this delay retroactively to October 1, 2010. The implementation of the RUG-IV classification may impact our operators by revising the classifications of certain patients. The federal reimbursement for certain facilities, such as SNFs, incorporates adjustments to account for facility case-mix.. Additionally, revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable or because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. There also continue to be new legislative and regulatory proposals that could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. Moreover, healthcare facilities continue to experience pressures from private payors attempting to control healthcare costs, and reimbursement from private payors has in many cases effectively been reduced to levels approaching those of government payors. That said, on July 31, 2013, CMS issued its final rate for fiscal year 2014 Medicare payment rates for SNFs. Based on the changes contained in the final rule, CMS estimates that total Medicare payments to SNFs will increase by $470 million, or 1.3%, for fiscal year 2014, which begins on October 1, 2013. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by our operators. Further limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause the revenues of our operators to decline and which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. A number of states are currently managing budget deficits, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates for our operators with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under their state Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in Medicaid due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement to our operators under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Potential reductions in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement to our operators could reduce the cash flow of our operators and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Possible changes in the healthcare needs of our operators’ residents as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect the profitability of our operators. The sources and amounts of our operators’ revenues are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents and the rate of reimbursement. Changes in the healthcare needs of the residents as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our operators’ profitability and which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our operators may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our operators may be subject to claims that their services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. The insurance coverage maintained by our operators, whether through commercial insurance or self-insurance, may not cover all claims made against them or continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to our operators due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, our operators operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. From time to time, there may also be increases in government investigations of long-term care providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as increases in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or government investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could lead to potential termination from government programs, large penalties and fines and otherwise have a material adverse effect on an operator’s financial condition. If an operator is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if an operator is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if an operator is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the operator could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which could result in its bankruptcy or insolvency or have a material adverse effect on the operator’s business and its ability to meet its obligations to us. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our operators could delay or prevent our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. We receive substantially all of our income as rent payments under leases of our properties. We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators’ businesses and, at any time, any of our operators may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our operators may fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any operator failures to make rent payments when due or operator bankruptcies could result in the termination of the operator’s lease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. This risk is magnified in situations where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease could reduce or eliminate rental revenue from multiple properties. 18 Table of Contents If operators are unable to comply with the terms of the leases, we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of an operator to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement operator, operate the property or sell the property. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease a property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, find another qualified operator, successfully reposition the property for other uses or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us. It may be more difficult to find a replacement operator for a SNF property than it would be to find a replacement tenant for a general commercial property due to the specialized nature of the business. Even if we are able to find a suitable replacement operator for a property, transfers of operations of SNFs and other healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations, which may affect our ability to successfully transition a property. If any lease expires or is terminated, we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that property until it is re-leased or sold. If we experience a significant number of un-leased properties, our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our operators could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that operator or seize its property. An operator bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the leases and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, dealing with an operator’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs. If one or more of our operators files for bankruptcy relief, the U.S. federal Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time. However, our leases with operators that lease more than one of our properties are generally made pursuant to a single master lease covering all of that operator’s properties leased from us, or are cross-defaulted with other leases, and consequently there is uncertainty about how such arrangements may be treated in a bankruptcy. It is possible that in bankruptcy the debtor-operator may be required to assume or reject the master lease or cross-defaulted leases as a whole, rather than making the decision on a property-by-property basis, thereby preventing the debtor-operator from assuming the better performing properties and terminating the master lease or cross-defaulted leases with respect to the poorer performing properties. Increased competition may affect the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to us. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Our operators are competing with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as long-term acute care hospitals, in-patient rehabilitation facilities, home health agencies, hospices, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. Our operators may not be able to achieve performance levels that will enable them to meet their obligations to us. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Structure AVIV’s primary asset is its OP units in the Partnership and, as a result, AVIV will depend on distributions from the Partnership to pay dividends and expenses. AVIV is a holding company and has no material assets other than OP units in the Partnership. AVIV intends to cause the Partnership to make distributions to partners, including AVIV, in an amount sufficient to allow AVIV to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and to pay all our expenses. To the extent we need funds and the Partnership is restricted from making distributions under applicable law or otherwise, or if the Partnership is otherwise unable to provide such funds, the failure to make such distributions could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Members of our management and board of directors are unitholders of the Partnership, and their interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. Members of our management and board of directors are holders of OP units of the Partnership. Those unitholders may have conflicting interests with holders of AVIV’s common stock. For example, holders of OP units may have different tax positions from AVIV or holders of AVIV’s common stock, which could influence their decisions in their capacities as members of management regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness and how to structure future transactions. 19 Table of Contents Lindsay Goldberg, Mr. Bernfield, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a trust formed for the benefit of the estate of Zev Karkomi, one of our co-founders, together with certain of their respective affiliates, family members and estates and trusts, own shares of common stock and OP units representing 57.4%, 14.3% and 12.6% respectively, of AVIV’s outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis and have the ability to exercise significant influence over our Company and any matter presented to our stockholders. Lindsay Goldberg, a private investment firm, Mr. Bernfield, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a trust formed for the benefit of the estate of Zev Karkomi, one of our co-founders, together with certain of their respective affiliates, family members and estates and trusts, own shares of common stock and OP units representing 57.4%, 14.3% and 12.6%, respectively, of AVIV’s outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis, including net shares issuable under in-the-money options. As a result of their equity ownership and their positions within our Company, each of Lindsay Goldberg, Mr. Bernfield and members of the Karkomi Estate individually or, to the extent their interests are aligned, collectively may be able to influence the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder action, including the election of our board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. In addition, Lindsay Goldberg has the right to nominate three directors pursuant to an Investment Agreement. Therefore, each of Lindsay Goldberg, Mr. Bernfield and the Karkomi Estate (and members thereof) have substantial influence over us and could exercise influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that our stockholders may view as beneficial. Lindsay Goldberg has agreed that, while the Investment Agreement is in effect, in connection with any merger to which AVIV is a constituent party, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of AVIV, plans of liquidation involving AVIV, or issuances of capital stock by AVIV, in each case, to the extent such matter is submitted to a vote of stockholders or included in a solicitation of consents with respect to the stockholders, it will vote its shares in AVIV which represent up to its indirect ownership percentage of the Partnership in its sole and absolute discretion and will vote its shares in excess of such amount in proportion with the other stockholders of AVIV that are unaffiliated with Lindsay Goldberg. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. As a result of the issuance of our 2019 Notes in February 2011, we became a public reporting company under the Exchange Act. However, we have limited experience complying with Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations. Since becoming a public company with our common stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, in March 2013, we must to comply with additional laws, regulations and requirements, including the requirements of the NYSE, with which we had not previously been required to comply. Despite recent reforms made possible by the JOBS Act, compliance with these laws, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and significantly increases our legal, accounting and other expenses, particularly after we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company.” Furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of public companies may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations upon becoming a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations. In addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments and attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K following the date on which we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company” or we opt not to use the applicable exemption. We could qualify as an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we could lose that status sooner if our revenues exceed $1 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30th before that time, in which case we would no longer qualify as an emerging growth company as of the following December 31st. In connection with our implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to comply with Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and subject us to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 20 Table of Contents Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company. In order for AVIV to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Subject to some exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning actually or constructively more than 8.6% (in value) of our outstanding common stock or of our outstanding stock of all classes and series. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 8.6% of our outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 8.6% in value of our outstanding stock, and thus violate our charter’s ownership limit. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause AVIV to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Certain provisions of Maryland Law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our Company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our Company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests. Subject to certain limitations, provisions of the MGCL prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or an affiliate or associate of us who beneficially owned 10% or more of the voting power of our stock during the previous two years) or an affiliate of the interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. After the five year period, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of the interested stockholder must generally either provide a minimum price to our stockholders or be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding stock and at least two-third of the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders other than the interested stockholder and its affiliates and associates. These provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. As permitted by the statute, our board of directors has by resolution exempted any business combination between us and any other person or entity from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and any such person or entity. As a result, these persons may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interests of our stockholders without compliance by our company with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. Our bylaws provide that this resolution may only be revoked, altered or amended, and our board of directors may only adopt any resolution inconsistent with such resolution, or any other resolution of our board of directors exempting any business combination from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter by holders of outstanding shares of our common stock. The MGCL also provides that holders of control shares (which are shares of our stock which, when aggregated with other shares that the acquiror owns or is entitled to direct the exercise of voting power (other than solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise (i) at least 10% but less than 33%, (ii) at least 33% but less than a majority or (iii) a majority of the voting power in the election of directors) generally have no voting rights with respect to control shares except to the extent approved by stockholders (other than the holder of the control shares, our officers and our directors who are also our employees) entitled to cast at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted by Maryland law, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the provisions of the MGCL relating to control share acquisitions any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. Our board of directors may not amend this provision of our bylaws without the approval of a majority of the votes cast on any such amendment by holders of outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect to be subject to certain provisions relating to corporate governance that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests. We may change our investment strategies and policies without stockholder approval. Our board of directors, without the approval of our stockholders, may alter our investment strategies and policies if it determines that a change is in our best interests. The methods of implementing our investment strategies and policies may vary as new investments and financing techniques are developed. 21 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Tax Status and Other Tax Related Matters Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. We made the election to be taxed as a REIT effective as of our taxable year ending December 31, 2010. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner that has allowed us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Code commencing with such taxable year, and we intend to continue to be organized and operate in this manner. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and U.S. Treasury Department regulations, or Treasury regulations, promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements on a continuing basis, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, sources of our gross income and stockholder ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (computed without regard to our deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains). If we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, but all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our taxable non-corporate U.S. stockholders would generally be taxed on our dividends at capital gains rates, and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Code. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on certain prohibited transactions, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. We currently own an interest in one taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, and we may use TRSs to undertake indirectly activities that the REIT rules might otherwise preclude us from doing directly or through “pass-through subsidiaries”. Such TRSs will be subject to federal, state and local corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on any transaction with a TRS that is not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for the payment of our debt obligations or for distribution to our stockholders. To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (computed without regard to our deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains), and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute annually less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (computed without regard to our deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains). In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. The terms of the indentures governing our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes and our Revolving Credit Facility restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we may need to borrow funds to the extent that we are permitted to do so, on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, in order to make the distributions necessary to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. 22 Table of Contents Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to some dividends. The maximum tax rate for qualified dividends, which are dividends received during the applicable tax year from U.S. corporations and from certain qualified non-U.S. corporations, payable to taxable non-corporate U.S. stockholders is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the 20% rate. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals, trusts or estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment currently given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect the value of our properties. However, as a REIT, AVIV generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our stockholders, and we thus expect to avoid the “double taxation” to which other corporations are typically subject. Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on your investment. For so long as AVIV qualifies as a REIT, our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following acquisition may be restricted to a substantial extent as a result of AVIV’s REIT qualification. Under applicable provisions of the Code regarding prohibited transactions by REITs, while AVIV qualifies as a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of any property (other than foreclosure property) that we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership (but generally excluding TRSs) that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by (a) conducting activities that may otherwise be considered prohibited transactions through a TRS (but such TRS would incur corporate rate income taxes with respect to any income or gain recognized by it), (b) conducting our operations in such a manner so that no sale or other disposition of an asset we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary, will be treated as a prohibited transaction or (c) structuring certain dispositions of our properties to comply with the requirements of the prohibited transaction safe harbor available under the Code for properties that, among other requirements, have been held for at least two years. Despite our present intention, no assurance can be given that any particular property we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, will not be treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, AVIV continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the type and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As a result, we may be required to liquidate or forgo investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. The likelihood that we would be required to so liquidate or forgo otherwise advantageous investments is made greater by the fact that the terms of the indentures governing our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes and the terms of our credit facilities restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which indebtedness might otherwise be used to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets generally does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, if certain requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the TRS. 23 Table of Contents New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for AVIV to qualify as a REIT. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. The U.S. federal income tax rules that affect REITs are constantly under review, and the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could materially adversely affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common stock. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our common stock. It is impossible to anticipate the effects of any such revisions at this time. Non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon their receipt of certain distributions from us or upon their disposition of shares of our common stock. A non-U.S. stockholder that disposes of a “U.S. real property interest”, or USRPI (which includes shares of stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of USRPIs), or that receives a distribution attributable to gains from such a disposition, is generally subject to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, as amended, or FIRPTA, on the amount received from (or to the extent attributable to gains from) such disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT that is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is domestically controlled if less than 50% of its stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. We cannot assure you that we will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, amounts received by a non-U.S. stockholder on certain dispositions of shares of our common stock would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless (i) our shares of common stock were regularly traded on an established securities market and (ii) the non-U.S. stockholder did not, at any time during a specified testing period, hold more than 5% of our common stock. Furthermore, certain distributions by us may be subject to FIRPTA tax unless our shares of common stock are regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and the condition in clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence is satisfied. Distributions to tax-exempt stockholders may be classified as UBTI. Although generally exempt from U.S. federal income tax, tax-exempt entities may be subject to taxation on their “unrelated business taxable income” (as such term is defined in the Code), or UBTI. While some investments in real estate may generate UBTI, the IRS has ruled that dividend distributions from a REIT to a tax-exempt entity generally do not constitute UBTI, subject to certain exceptions. However, tax-exempt stockholders that are social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts, and qualified group legal services plans exempt from U.S. federal income taxation under certain sections of the Code are subject to different UBTI rules, which generally require such stockholders to characterize distributions that we make as UBTI. Moreover, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock could be required to treat a percentage of any dividends received from us as UBTI. The limit on the percentage of shares of our common stock that any person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination that may have benefited our stockholders. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, our charter generally restricts (subject to certain exceptions) any person from actually or constructively owning more than 8.6% (in value) of our common stock or of our outstanding stock of all classes and series. This restriction may discourage a change of control of us and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for shares of our stock on terms that might be financially attractive to you or which may cause a change in our management. This ownership restriction may also prohibit business combinations that would have otherwise been approved by our board of directors and you. In addition to deterring potential transactions that may be favorable to you, these provisions may also decrease your ability to sell your shares of our common stock. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, government regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; • increases in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; 24 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • actions by stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general market, economic and political conditions; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in accounting principles; • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and • the potential impact of governmental budgets and healthcare reimbursement expenditures. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our stock price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution or interest rate on our common stock or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our common stock. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will decrease because potential investors may require a higher dividend yield on our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to stockholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our shares. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share of our common stock. Any sales by us or our existing stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. The exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock granted to our directors, executive officers and other employees under our 2010 Management Incentive Plan and 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the issuance of our common stock in connection with facility, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. In addition, future sales of shares of our common stock by us may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Our cash available for distributions may not be sufficient to make distributions at expected levels. We may be unable to pay our annual distributions to stockholders out of cash available for distributions. If sufficient cash is not available for distributions from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital or to borrow to provide funds for such distributions, or to reduce the amount of such distributions. To the extent that we fund distributions from working capital, our cash available for investing purposes will decrease. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 