D. Risk Factors.” In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this annual report may not occur as contemplated, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or otherwise. You should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in reports we will file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this annual report. See “Item 10. Additional Information—H. Documents on Display.” 57 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and Senior Management Set forth below is the name, age, position and a brief account of the business experience of each of our executive officers and directors. Name Age Position/Title Shing Yung Ma 47 Chairman of the board and chief executive officer Na Lai Chiu 57 Vice chairman of the board Jin Li 45 Director Neil Nanpeng Shen 44 Director Gordon Xiaogang Wang 48 Director Chung Bong Pang 36 Director Li-Lan Cheng 47 Director Yaping Si 59 Director Auke Cnossen 39 Chief financial officer Hang Chen 43 Vice president of operations Dan Ma 29 Production base development director Shing Yung Ma is the founder of our company and has served as our chairman and chief executive officer since our inception. Mr. Ma has over 14 years of managerial and operational experience in the vegetable cultivation industry. From 1999 to 2003, he served as the vice president of Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a vegetable production company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, where he was in charge of operations and sales. Prior to that, he was the general manager of Fujian Chaoda Green Agriculture Ltd. Co from 1997 to 1999. From 1991 to 1997, Mr. Ma was the vice president of Fujian Guangyuan Logistics Ltd. Co., a China-based logistics company. Prior to his career in the agricultural industry, he worked as an instructor in Fujian Normal College from 1987 to 1991. Mr. Ma received his college diploma from Fujian Normal College in 1987 where he majored in Chinese literature. Na Lai Chiu has been our vice chairman since July 2010 and became our adviser in early 2008. Ms. Chiu is one of the founders of Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a vegetable production company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Prior to founding Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., Ms. Chiu had over 15 years of experience in the trading business and served as the deputy general manager of a trading company based in Hong Kong, where she was primarily responsible for business management and administration. Jin Li has been our director since 2006. He has been advising our company on operations and strategic matters since 2006. Mr. Li began his career as an attorney in New York and then relocated to Asia in 1997. He has worked for Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP & Affiliates in Beijing and Hong Kong, and Linklaters in Hong Kong, as a partner. Mr. Li received his bachelor of arts degree from Peking University and master of science degree from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He received his J.D. degree from Columbia Law School. Neil Nanpeng Shen has been our director since 2006 and was appointed by Sequoia following our series A financing. Mr. Shen is the founding managing partner of Sequoia Capital China. Mr. Shen co-founded Ctrip.com International Ltd., the largest travel consolidator in China, and served as its chief financial officer from 2000 to October 2005 and as its president from August 2003 to October 2005. He also co-founded Home Inns and Hotels Management, a leading economy hotel chain in China. Prior to founding Ctrip and Home Inns, Mr. Shen had worked for over eight years in the investment banking industry in New York and Hong Kong. Currently, Mr. Shen is a co-chairman of Home Inns, a director of Ctrip, a director of E-House (China) Holdings Limited, a NYSE-listed real estate service company in China, a director of China Nuokang Bio-Pharmaceutical Inc., a NASDAQ-listed biopharmaceutical company in China, a director of Qihoo 360, a NASDAQ-listed search solution provider in China, a director of Mecox Lane, a NASDAQ-listed mail order company in China, and a director of Peak Sport Products, a Hong Kong Stock Exchange listed sports apparel company in China. He is also an independent director of Focus Media Holding Limited, a NASDAQ-listed media advertising company based in China and a director of a number of privately owned companies based in China. Mr. Shen received his bachelor’s degree from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China in 1988 and his master’s degree from the School of Management at Yale University in 1992. Gordon Xiaogang Wang has been our director since October 2010. Mr. Wang has over 15 years of experience in corporate finance and strategic business development. From April 2010 to present, Mr. Wang is a partner of Boardroom Advisors Co., Limited, a company focusing on advising China-based companies on corporate finance and strategic matters. He served as the chief financial officer of Acorn International, Inc., a China-based marketing company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, from September 2005 to March 2010. Mr. Wang served as the chief financial officer and executive vice president of Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a vegetable production company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, from 2003 to 2005. Mr. Wang also served as the director of investor relations at Legend Group Limited from 2002 to 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Wang held positions in various organizations, including JingTai Securities (Hong Kong), MeetChina.com, Schroders Asia Limited and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. Mr. Wang received his bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Tianjin University in 1985, his master’s degree in computer-aided engineering from Rutgers University in 1989 and an MBA degree from the University of Chicago in 1994. 58 Table of Contents Chung Bong Pang has been our director since October 2010. Mr. Pang has served as the director in Avista Valuation Advisory Limited since June 2010. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Pang was an associate director at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Beijing. Prior to that, he was a manager of the financial valuation group of American Appraisal China Limited from 2005 to 2007, and an associate director of BMI Group in Hong Kong from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Pang received his bachelor’s degree from the University of New South Wales in 1999 where he majored in accounting and finance. He is a certified practicing accountant in Australia and a certified public accountant under the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Li-Lan Cheng has been our director since October 2010. He has been the chief operating officer of E-House (China) Holdings Limited, a real estate services company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, since April 2012 and served as its chief financial officer from November 2006 to April 2012. He is also an independent director of Country Style Cooking Restaurant Chain Co. Ltd., a quick service restaurant chain listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Prior to joining E-House (China) Holdings Limited, Mr. Cheng served from 2005 to 2006 as the chief financial officer of SouFun Holdings Limited, China’s leading real estate Internet company. He was a partner at China Real Estate Investment and Management Co., Ltd. from 2004 to 2005. From 2002 to 2004, Mr. Cheng served as an executive director and the chief financial officer of SOHO China Limited, a real estate developer in Beijing. Mr. Cheng was an assistant director and the head of Asian transportation sector investment banking group of ABN AMRO Asia from 1997-2002. Mr. Cheng received his bachelor’s degree in economics from Swarthmore College and his Ph.D. degree in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Cheng is a chartered financial analyst. Yaping Si has been our director since August 2011. She has over 30 years of experience in agriculture and vegetable cultivation research. Ms. Si currently serves as the director of the Facility Horticulture Branch of the Chinese Society of Horticultural Science and the director of the Beijing Vegetable Institute. From 1979 to 2007, she worked in the National Engineering Research Centre for Vegetables, focusing on vegetable breeding and modern vegetable cultivation techniques. While at the National Engineering Research Centre for Vegetables, she headed its Vegetable Cultivation Research Laboratory. Ms. Si has hosted and participated in a number of research projects commissioned by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery, the Beijing Municipal Commission of Science and Technology, and the Beijing Municipal Commission of Rural Affairs, and won a number of awards for her work. Ms. Si graduated from the Biology Department of Peking University with a bachelor’s degree in plant physiology and biochemistry in 1978. Auke G. Cnossen has been our chief financial officer since September 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Cnossen held various positions at Rabobank International since July 2004, including the director of mergers & acquisitions and corporate advisory for Northeast Asia region, the head of food & agribusiness research and strategic advisory for Northeast Asia region and the senior associate in the mergers and acquisitions group and the leveraged finance group. From 2001 to 2002, he worked as an internal consultant in the research and development department of Unilever Bestfoods in the Netherlands. He served as a research fellow in the food science department of the University of Arkansas from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Cnossen received an MBA degree from Cornell University in 2004 and a master’s degree in agricultural engineering from Wageningen University in the Netherlands in 1997. Hang Chen has been our vice president of operations since May 2010 and joined our company in 2008. Mr. Chen has over ten years of managerial and operational experience in vegetable cultivation in China. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. Chen was a private consultant advising on various farming projects in China. From 1997 to 2005, Mr. Chen was an executive director in Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a vegetable production company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, where he was in charge of the administration and personnel management. From 1990 to 1997, Mr. Chen worked as a manager in Fujian Semi-Conductor Device Factory. Mr. Chen graduated from Minjiang College in 1990 where he majored in business administration. Dan Ma has been our production base development director since June 2010. Ms. Ma joined our company in 2005 after she received her college diploma from Liaodong College in 2005 where she majored in agricultural studies. Ms. Ma has held various positions in our company, including the deputy general manager, the assistant general manager and the processing facilities supervisor of Linong Agricultural Technology (Huizhou) Co. Ltd., one of our operating subsidiaries in Guangdong province. Employment Agreements We have entered into employment agreements with our senior executive officers. Under these employment agreements, each of our executive officers is employed for a specified time period, subject to automatic extension unless either we or the executive officer gives a one-month prior notice to terminate such employment. We may terminate the employment for cause, at any time, without notice or remuneration, for certain acts of the employee, including but not limited to a conviction or plea of guilty to certain crimes, negligence or dishonesty to our detriment and failure to perform the agreed-to duties after a reasonable opportunity to cure the failure. An executive officer may terminate his employment at any time with one-month prior written notice if there is a material reduction in his authority, duties and responsibilities or if there is a material reduction in his annual salary before the next annual salary review. Furthermore, we may terminate the employment at any time without cause upon advance written notice to the executive officer. These agreements do not provide for any special termination benefits, nor do we have other arrangements with these executive officers for special termination benefits. 59 Table of Contents Each executive officer has agreed to hold, both during and after the employment agreement expires or is earlier terminated, in strict confidence and not to use, except as required in the performance of his duties in connection with the employment, any confidential information, trade secrets and know-how of our company or the confidential information of any third party, including our variable interest entities and our subsidiaries, received by us. In addition, each executive officer has agreed to be bound by non-competition restrictions set forth in his or her employment agreement. Specifically, each executive officer has agreed not to, for a period of two years following the termination or expiration of the employment agreement, (i) carry on or be engaged or interested, directly or indirectly, as shareholder, director, employee, partner, agent or otherwise carry on any business in direct competition with our business; (ii) solicit or entice away from us, or attempt to solicit or entice away from us, any person or entity who has been our customer, client or our representative or agent or in the habit of dealing with us within two years prior to such executive officer’s termination of employment; (iii) solicit or entice away from us, or attempt to solicit or entice away from us, any person or entity who has been our officer, manager, consultant or employee within 12 months prior to such executive officer’s termination of employment; or (iv) use a name including the word “Linong” or any other words used by us in our name or in the name of any of our products, in such a way as to be capable of or likely to be confused with our name or the name of our products. B. Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers Our directors and executive officers receive compensation in the form of annual salaries and bonuses. While we do not have a specific bonus plan setting the calculation of our annual bonuses, each director and executive officer is entitled to receive an annual discretionary bonus based upon his or her performance of such amount as shall be determined by the board of directors. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the total compensation we paid to our executive officers and directors was approximately RMB20.5 million ($3.3 million), including share-based compensation in the amount of approximately RMB16.3 million ($2.6 million). See “— Share Incentive Plans” below for information regarding share options that we granted to our executive officers and directors. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we paid RMB39,000 ($6,000) for pension, retirement or similar benefits for our executives officers and directors. Share Incentive Plans The board of directors of China Linong adopted share incentive plans in May 2007 and April 2009 and our board of directors adopted a share incentive plan in August 2010. These incentive plans were adopted to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to directors, officers, advisors and key employees and to promote the success of our business. Options to purchase 66.58 ordinary shares of China Linong under China Linong’s 2007 share incentive plan were issued in 2007 and after a 1-to-1000 subdivision in 2008 and an option exchange in 2010, these options subsequently represented the right to purchase 66,580,000 of our ordinary shares. As part of our restructuring, we adopted a 2009 share incentive plan, or the 2009 plan, whose key provisions are substantially the same as those of China Linong’s 2009 share incentive plan. We have reserved an aggregate of 151,430,000 ordinary shares for issuance under the 2009 plan. In July 2010, China Linong, we and all option grantees under China Linong’s 2007 and 2009 share incentive plans entered into an option exchange agreement, under which the option grantees agreed to exchange their option shares granted by China Linong with options to purchase our shares under the same terms and conditions. In August 2010, our board of directors and shareholders adopted a 2010 share incentive plan, or the 2010 plan. The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be issued pursuant to all awards under the 2010 plan is 60,000,000 shares, plus an annual increase on the first day of each year, beginning in the year ending December 31, 2011 and ending in the year ending December 31, 2021, equal to the lesser of (1) 60,000,000 shares, (2) two percent of the shares outstanding (on an as converted basis) on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year and (3) such smaller number of shares as determined by our board of directors. Our future option grants will be made pursuant to the 2010 plan. The following paragraphs describe the principal terms of our share incentive plans. Types of awards The types of awards we may grant under the plans include the options to purchase our ordinary shares at a specified price and in a specified period determined by our compensation committee. Under the 2010 plan, we may also grant awards of our ordinary (1) restricted shares, (2) restricted share units, (3) dividend equivalents, (4) deferred shares, (5) share payments and (6) share appreciation rights under the terms and conditions determined by our compensation committee. 60 Table of Contents Eligibility We may grant awards to directors, officers, advisors and employees of the Company and our wholly owned subsidiaries and any entity which may thereafter be established. Plan administration The compensation committee of our board of directors, or a committee of no less than two (or five, in the case of China Linong’s 2007 plan and the 2009 plan) members of the board of directors, will administer the plans. The committee will determine the terms and conditions of each grant, including but not limited to, the exercise, grant or purchase prices, any reload provision, any restrictions or limitations on the awards, vesting schedules, restrictions on the exercisability of the awards, any accelerations or waivers, and any provision related to non-competition and recapture of gain on the awards. Option offer letter/Award agreement Awards granted under the plans will be evidenced by an option offer letter or an award agreement that will set forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each award. The option offer letter should be signed by the employee and a director or an officer of the Company. Share awards may be evidenced by way of an issuance of certificates or book entries with appropriate legends. The certificates and book entry procedures may be subject to counsels’ advice, stop-transfer orders or other conditions or restrictions where the plan administrator deems necessary to comply with the required laws and regulations. Vesting The 2010 plan provides that the administrator may set the period during which an option or a share appreciation right can be exercised and may determine that an option or a share appreciation right may not be exercised for a specified period after it is granted. Such vesting can be based on criteria selected by the administrator. At any time after the grant of an option or a share appreciation right, the administrator may, in its sole discretion and subject to terms and conditions it determines, accelerate the period during which an option or a share appreciation right vests. No portion of an option or a share appreciation right unexercisable at the termination of service of an option or a share appreciation right holder with our company or subsidiaries can become exercisable afterwards, unless otherwise provided by the administrator. The 2009 plan provides that the administrator may set the period during which an option can be exercised and may determine that an option may not be exercised for a specified period after it is granted. Such vesting can be based on criteria selected by the administrator. However, any option granted will vest immediately prior to any merger into, consolidation with or acquisition of our company by another company in which our company’s shareholders do not retain more than 50% of the voting power. At any time after the grant of an option, the administrator may, in its sole discretion and subject to terms and conditions it determines, accelerate the period during which an option vests. No portion of an option unexercisable at the termination of service of an option holder with our company or its subsidiaries can become exercisable afterwards, unless otherwise provided by the administrator. China Linong’s 2007 share incentive plan provides that the period during which each option may be vested should be fixed by the compensation committee at the time such option is granted, but the option will expire no later than 10 years from the date it is granted. Each option granted may be vested only after one year of continued employment by our company or its subsidiaries immediately following the date the option if granted. However, any option granted will vest immediately prior to any merger into, consolidation with or acquisition of our company by another company in which our company’s shareholders do not retain more than 50% of the voting power. Exercise price and term of awards The exercise price per share of options granted under the 2010 plan is determined by the plan administrator in the award agreement. The price may be fixed or variable related to the fair market value of our ordinary shares. The term of any option granted should not exceed 10 years. However in the case where our incentive option is granted to an individual who, at the date of grant, owns more than ten percent of the total voting power of all classes of our shares, the price granted shall not be less than 110% of the fair market value on the date of grant and the option is exercisable for no more than five years from the date of grant. For ordinary share awards granted under the 2010 plan, namely (1) restricted shares, (2) restricted share units, (3) dividend equivalents, (4) deferred shares, and (5) share payments, the consideration shall not be less than the par value of the shares purchased. The terms of the share awards are set by the plan administrator in its sole discretion. 61 Table of Contents The exercise price of share appreciation right under the 2010 plan is determined by the plan administrator and set forth in the award agreement which may be a fixed or variable price related to the fair market value of the shares. The term of the share appreciation right will not exceed 10 years. The exercise price per share of options granted under the 2009 plan is determined by the plan administrator in the award agreement. The price may be fixed or variable related to the fair market value of our ordinary shares. The fair market value is the value of shares determined in good faith by reference to the placing price of the latest private placement of the shares and the development of our business operations and the general economic and market conditions since such latest private placement. The term of any option granted will not exceed 10 years. Under China Linong’s 2007 share incentive plan, the exercise price of an award is generally determined by the compensation committee but the price should be no less than 100% of the fair market value of such shares of ordinary shares on the date the option is granted. However, the fair market value as determined should not be less than the book value of our ordinary shares as reflected in our most recent audited financial statements. The fair market value of shares should be deemed conclusive upon the determination of the compensation committee in good faith. The term of an award should not exceed 10 years from the date of the grant. Transfer restrictions The awards granted under the 2010 plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, subject to the consent of the plan administrator, as required under the applicable laws. Under the 2009 plan, the plan administrator has the power to determine the restrictions on the exercisability of the award granted, based on considerations determined by the plan administrator. Under China Linong’s 2007 share incentive plan, an option granted may not be transferred except by will or the laws of descent or distribution, and during the lifetime of the employee to whom the option is granted, may be exercised only by such employee. Amendments or termination The 2009 plan and the 2010 plan provide that in the event of any changes affecting our ordinary shares or our share price, the plan administrator can make proportionate and equitable adjustments to reflect such changes. Upon or in anticipation of a corporate transaction, including acquisition, disposal of substantially all or all assets, reverse takeover, dissolution, the plan administrator should in its discretion provide for replacement or assumption of such award. In the event of other changes, the compensation committee should in its discretion make adjustments in the number and class of shares subject to awards outstanding on the date of such change to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights. The 2009 and 2010 plans will expire and no further awards may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the plan was adopted. China Linong’s 2007 share incentive plan provides that the board of directors have the right to amend, suspend or terminate the plan. Amendments to the plan are subject to shareholders approval to increase the number of shares available for issuance under the plans, change the minimum purchase price for the optioned shares, or extend the term or the option period beyond ten years from the date of grant. Unless terminated earlier, the plan will expire and no further awards may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the plan took effect. As of June 30, 2012, we have granted options to purchase a total of 196,265,000 ordinary shares to our directors and executive officers with exercise prices of $0.0729 per share, $0.0757 per share, $0.08 per share or $0.143 per share under our share incentive plans, including options which had been exercised to purchase 44,128,000 ordinary shares. C. Board Practices Board of Directors Our board of directors currently consists of eight directors. A director is not required to hold any shares in our company by way of qualification. A director may vote with respect to any contract, proposed contract or arrangement in which he is materially interested as long as he or she has made a declaration of the nature of such interest and has not been disqualified by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Our board of directors may exercise all the powers of our company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its undertakings, property and uncalled capital, or any part thereof, and to issue debentures, debenture stock or other securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of our company or of any third party. 62 Table of Contents Committees of the Board of Directors Our board of directors established an audit committee and a compensation committee in October 2010 and a nominating and corporate governance committee in August 2011. Audit Committee Our audit committee consists of Mr. Gordon Xiaogang Wang, Mr. Chung Bong Pang and Mr. Li-Lan Cheng, and is chaired by Mr. Wang. Messrs. Wang, Pang and Cheng satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605 of NASDAQ Stock Market, Marketplace Rules as well as the “independence” requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our board also has determined that Messrs. Wang, Pang and Cheng qualify as audit committee financial experts within the meaning of the SEC rules. The audit committee oversees our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audits of the financial statements of our company. The audit committee is responsible for, among other things: • selecting our independent auditors and pre-approving all auditing and non-auditing services permitted to be performed by our independent auditors; • reviewing with our independent auditors any audit problems or difficulties and management’s response; • reviewing and approving all proposed related-party transactions, as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act; • discussing the annual audited financial statements with management and our independent auditors; • reviewing major issues as to the adequacy of our internal controls and any special audit steps adopted in light of material control deficiencies; • annually reviewing and reassessing the adequacy of our audit committee charter; • such other matters that are specifically delegated to our audit committee by our board of directors from time to time; • meeting separately and periodically with management and our internal and independent auditors; and • reporting regularly to the full board of directors. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our audit committee held four meetings. Compensation Committee Our compensation committee consists of Mr. Neil Nanpeng Shen and Mr. Gordon Xiaogang Wang, and is chaired by Mr. Shen. Messrs. Shen and Wang satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605 of NASDAQ Stock Market, Marketplace Rules. Our compensation committee assists the board in reviewing and approving the compensation structure of our directors and executive officers, including all forms of compensation to be provided to our directors and executive officers. Members of the compensation committee are not prohibited from direct involvement in determining their own compensation. Our chief executive officer may not be present at any committee meeting during which his compensation is deliberated. The compensation committee will be responsible for, among other things: • approving and overseeing the compensation package for our executive officers; • reviewing and making recommendations to the board with respect to the compensation of our directors; • reviewing and approving corporate goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of our chief executive officer, evaluating the performance of our chief executive officer in light of those goals and objectives, and setting the compensation level of our chief executive officer based on this evaluation; and • reviewing periodically and making recommendations to the board regarding any long-term incentive compensation or equity plans, programs or similar arrangements, annual bonuses, employee pension and welfare benefit plans. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our compensation committee held one meeting. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Our nominating and corporate governance committee consists of Mr. Neil Nanpeng Shen and Ms. Yaping Si. Mr. Shen and Ms. Si satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605 of NASDAQ Stock Market, Marketplace Rules. Our nominating and corporate governance committee assists the board in discharging the board’s responsibilities regarding: 63 Table of Contents • identification and recommendation to the board of qualified director nominees to be elected at the next annual meeting of shareholders (or special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected); • identification and recommendation to the board for selection, of qualified candidates to fill any vacancies on the board; • annual review of the composition of the board in light of the characteristics of independence, qualification, experience and availability of the board members; • monitoring compliance of corporate governance guidelines and principles applicable to us; • oversight of the evaluation of the board; and • monitoring of compliance with our code of business conduct and ethics, including reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of our internal rules and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our nominating and corporate governance committee held one meeting. Duties of Directors Under Cayman Islands law, our directors have a duty of loyalty to act honestly, in good faith and with a view to our best interests. Our directors also have a duty to exercise the skill they actually possess and such care and diligence that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. In fulfilling their duty of care to us, our directors must ensure compliance with our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and re-stated from time to time. Our company has the right to seek damages if a duty owed by our directors is breached. The functions and powers of our board of directors include, among others: • convening shareholders’ annual general meetings; • declaring dividends and distributions; • appointing officers and determining the term of office of officers; • exercising the borrowing powers of our company and mortgaging the property of our company; and • approving the issuance and transfer of shares of our company, including the registering of such shares in our share register. Terms of Directors and Officers Each of our directors holds office until the expiration of his term and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. A director may be removed by a special resolution of our shareholders or by our board of directors. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, one-third of our directors are required to retire at each annual general meeting of our company, but shall be eligible for re-election at such meeting. In addition, the office of any director shall be vacated if the director (i) becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors, (ii) is found to be or becomes of unsound mind or dies, (iii) resigns by notice in writing to our company, (iv) without special leave of absence from our board, is absent from three consecutive meetings of our board and our board resolves that his office be vacated. D. Employees We had 260, 304 and 262 employees as of March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. The following table sets forth the number of our employees by function as of March 31, 2012: Number of Employees Administrative 34 Accounting and finance 59 Sales and marketing 32 Research and development 96 Others 41 Total 262 64 Table of Contents We have entered into employment agreements with our full-time employees. Our management and research and development personnel have signed non-competition agreements with us and are prohibited from engaging any activities that compete with our business during the period of their employment with us and for one to two years after leaving the company. We provide systematic training to our employees. We invite industry experts and farm managers to give regular training to our technical personnel as well as orientations to our newly hired technical personnel. We equip our middle managerial personnel with extensive training on business management and agricultural technology that are provided by experts and scholars associated with domestic and international research institutes. We also provide our farm workers with training on standardized, facilities-based agricultural production. We conduct monthly evaluations of our farm workers’ performance. We do not have collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We do not have labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be amicable. E. Share Ownership The following table sets forth information with respect to the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares as of June 30, 2012 by: • each of our directors and executive officers; and • each person known to us to own beneficially more than 5% of our shares. As of June 30, 2012, 2,281,430,300 of our ordinary shares were issued and outstanding, after deducting (1) 19,351,850 of ordinary shares repurchased and (2) 17,808,850 ordinary shares issued to Citi (Nominees) Limited, as nominee for Citibank, N.A., the depositary of our ADS program to facilitate our future issuance of ADSs upon the exercise of options under our share incentive plans. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3(d)(1) under the Exchange Act. In computing the number of shares beneficially owned by a person and the percentage ownership of that person, we have included shares that the person has the right to acquire within 60 days of June 30, 2012, including through the exercise of any option, warrant or other right or the conversion of any other security. These shares, however, are not included in the computation of the percentage ownership of any other person. Ordinary SharesBeneficiallyOwned % Directors and Executive Officers: Shing Yung Ma(1) 714,990,001 30.96 Na Lai Chiu(2) 111,805,000 4.84 Jin Li(3) * * Neil Nanpeng Shen(4) 348,765,000 15.27 Gordon Xiaogang Wang(5) 52,000,000 2.28 Chung Bong Pang * * Li-Lan Cheng * * Yaping Si — — Auke Cnossen * * Hang Chen * * Dan Ma * * All directors and executive officers as a group 1,255,726,668 53.05 Principal Shareholders: Grow Grand Limited(6) 667,318,001 29.25 Sequoia Capital China I, L.P. and its affiliates(7) 346,465,000 15.19 Alkeon Capital Management, LLC(8) 225,868,950 9.90 SIG China Investments One, Ltd.(9) 136,425,000 5.98 * Less than 1% of our ordinary shares (1) Consists of (i) 667,318,001 ordinary shares held by Grow Grand Limited, (ii) 20,000,000 ordinary shares held by Mr. Ma, and (iii) 27,672,000 options exercisable within 60 days after June 30, 2012. Grow Grand Limited, a British Virgin Islands company, is wholly owned by Shing Yung Ma. The registered address of Grow Grand Limited is P.O. Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. (2) Consists of (i) 80,638,000 ordinary shares held by Valuetrue Investments Limited, (ii) 3,500,000 ordinary shares held by Ms. Chiu, and (iii) 27,667,000 options exercisable within 60 days after June 30, 2012. Valuetrue Investments Limited, a British Virgin Islands company, is 100% held by Na Lai Chiu. The address of Valuetrue Investments Limited is P.O. Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. (3) Consists of certain ordinary shares held by Kara International Limited and options held by Mr. Li exercisable within 60 days after June 30, 2012. Mr. Li is a director of Kara International Limited. 65 Table of Contents (4) Consists of (i) 201,164,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China I, L.P., (ii) 23,112,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Principals Fund I, L.P., (iii) 31,139,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Principals Fund I, L.P. (together with Sequoia Capital China I, L.P. and Sequoia Capital China Partners Fund I, L.P., the “SCCI Funds”), (iv) 79,429,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund I, L.P., (v) 1,879,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Growth Partners Fund I, L.P., (vi) 9,742,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China GF Principals Fund I, L.P., (together with Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund I, L.P. and Sequoia Capital China Growth Partners Fund I, L.P., the “SCGF Funds”), and (vii) 2,300,000 options held by Neil Nanpeng Shen exercisable within 60 days after June 30, 2012. The SCCI Funds and SCGF Funds are managed by Sequoia Capital China Advisors Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The SCGF Funds’ general partner is Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund Management I, L.P. (“SCCG Mgt”). The SCCI Funds’ general partner is Sequoia Capital China Management I, L.P. (“SCCI Mgt”). The general partner for both SCCG Mgt and SCCI Mgt is SC China Holding Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. SC China Holding Limited is wholly owned by Max Wealth Enterprises Limited, a company wholly owned by Neil Nanpeng Shen. Neil Nanpeng Shen disclaims beneficial ownership in all securities shown except to the extent of his pecuniary interests therein. The registered address of Sequoia Capital China I, L.P. and its affiliates is Cricket Square, Hutchins Dr., P.O. Box 2681, Grand Cayman KY1-1111, Cayman Islands. (5) Consists of (i) 50,000,000 ordinary shares held by Win Seasons Holdings Limited and (ii) 2,000,000 options exercisable within 60 days after June 30, 2012. Win Seasons Holdings Limited is a Hong Kong company 100% held by Gordon Xiaogang Wang. The registered address of Win Seasons Holdings Limited is Room 2701, 27/F, Tesbury Centre, 28 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong. (6) Grow Grand Limited, a British Virgin Islands company, is wholly owned by Shing Yung Ma. The registered address of Grow Grand Limited is P.O. Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. (7) Consists of (i) 201,164,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China I, L.P., (ii) 23,112,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Partners Fund I, L.P., (iii) 31,139,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Principals Fund I, L.P., (iv) 79,429,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund I, L.P., (v) 1,879,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China Growth Partners Fund I., L.P., and (vi) 9,742,000 ordinary shares held by Sequoia Capital China GF Principals Fund I, L.P. The SCCI Funds and SCGF Funds are managed by Sequoia Capital China Advisors Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The SCGF Funds’ general partner is SCCG Mgt. The SCCI Funds’ general partner is SCCI Mgt. The general partner for both SCCG Mgt and SCCI Mgt is SC China Holding Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. SC China Holding Limited is wholly owned by Max Wealth Enterprises Limited, a company wholly owned by Neil Nanpeng Shen. Neil Nanpeng Shen disclaims beneficial ownership in all securities shown except to the extent of his pecuniary interests therein. The registered address of Sequoia Capital China I, L.P. and its affiliates is Cricket Square, Hutchins Dr., P.O. Box 2681, Grand Cayman KY1-1111, Cayman Islands. (8) According to the Form 13F filed with the SEC on May 15, 2012 by Alkeon Capital Management, LLC (“Alkeon”), consists of 4,517,379 ADSs, representing 225,868,950 ordinary shares. Of the 4,517,379 ADSs, Alkeon could exercise sole investment discretion with respect to 1,915,740 ADSs, representing 95,787,000 ordinary shares, and shared investment discretion with Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc. with respect to 2,601,639 ADSs, representing 130,081,950 ordinary shares. The business address of Alkeon is 350 Madison Avenue, 9th Floor, New York, NY10017, United States of America. (9) Consists of 136,425,000 ordinary shares held by SIG China Investments One, Ltd (SIG). SIG Asia Investment, LLL.P., the investment manager of SIG has discretionary authority to vote and dispose of the shares held by SIG. Arthur Dantchik, in his capacity as president of SIG Asia Investment, LLL.P., may also be deemed to have investment discretion over the shares held by SIG. Mr. Dantchik disclaims any such investment discretion or beneficial ownership with respect to the shares held by SIG. The address of SIG China Investments One, Ltd is One Capital Place, P.O. Box 1787GT, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. Based on a review of the register of members maintained by our Cayman Islands registrar, we believe that Citi (Nominees) Limited, as nominee for Citibank, N.A., the depositary of our ADS program, was our only U.S. record holder, holding 686,841,250 ordinary shares, or approximately 30.11% of our 2,281,430,300 issued and outstanding shares as of June 30, 2012. None of our shareholders has different voting rights from other shareholders as of the date of this annual report. We are currently not aware of any arrangement that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change of control of our company. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major Shareholders Please see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—E. Share Ownership.” 66 Table of Contents B. Related Party Transactions Transactions with Certain Directors, Shareholders and Affiliates Mr. Shing Yung Ma, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Mr. Ming Ho Lui, a former director of China Linong, made advances to the company in the aggregate amount of RMB141,000 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 for our working capital requirement. The amounts due to Mr. Ma and Mr. Lui are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand, representing the advances made by them to us since our inception. In September 2010, the amount due to Mr. Shing Yung Ma was fully repaid by us. Additionally, since our inception, we have made advances to Mr. Lui for business-related expenses. In September 2010, the amount due from Mr. Ming Ho Lui was fully repaid by Mr. Lui. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we sold Land V. Limited (Tianjin) to New Oriental Group Limited for RMB6.0 million. The consideration was satisfied by a waiver of amounts due to these disposed subsidiaries by other entities within our group. Private Placement Series A Preferred Shares In April 2006, pursuant to a share purchase agreement dated April 12, 2006, China Linong sold 169.38 series A preferred shares to Sequoia Capital China I, L.P., or Sequoia China, for an aggregate amount of $3,150,383.31, 19.46 series A preferred shares to Sequoia Capital China Partners Fund I, L.P., or Sequoia China Partners Fund, for an aggregate amount of $361,946.27 and 26.22 series A preferred shares to Sequoia Capital China Principals Funds I, L.P., or Sequoia China Principals Fund, for an aggregate amount of $487,678.89. A total of 215.06 series A preferred shares were sold for an aggregate amount of $4.0 million. The consideration was paid in cash. In March 2008, each of these series A preferred shares was subdivided into 1,000 series A preferred shares. In July 2010, these China Linong series A preferred shares were exchanged for our series A preferred shares at a 1 to 1,000 ratio. All of our series A preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares on an one-to-one basis upon the completion of our initial public offering. Series A1 Preferred Shares In February 2007, pursuant to a share purchase agreement dated February 14, 2007, China Linong sold 31.784 series A1 preferred shares to Sequoia China for an aggregate amount of $1,575,200, 3.652 series A1 preferred shares to Sequoia China Partners Fund for an aggregate amount of $181,000, 4.919 series A1 preferred shares to Sequoia China Principals Fund for an aggregate amount of $243,800, 24.213 series A1 preferred shares to Grow Grand Limited, or Grow Grand, for an aggregate amount of $1.2 million, and 16.142 series A1 preferred shares to Honeycomb Assets Management Limited, or Honeycomb, for an aggregate amount of $800,000. A total of 80.71 series A1 preferred shares were sold for an aggregate amount of $4.0 million. The consideration was paid in cash. In March 2008, each of these series A1 preferred shares was subdivided into 1,000 series A1 preferred shares. In July 2010, these China Linong series A1 preferred shares were exchanged for our series A1 preferred shares at a 1 to 1,000 ratio. All of our series A1 preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares on an one-to-one basis upon the completion of our initial public offering. Series B Preferred Shares In March 2008, pursuant to a purchase agreement dated March 21, 2008, China Linong sold 75,420 series B preferred shares to Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund China I, L.P., or Sequoia China Growth Fund, for an aggregate amount of $5,500,237, 130,270 series B preferred shares to SIG China Investments One, Ltd. or SIG China, for an aggregate amount of $9,500,344, 89,056 series B preferred shares to Pacven VI, for an aggregate amount of $6,494,685, 6,934 series B preferred shares to Pacven VI Parallel, for an aggregate amount of $505,683, and 27,420 series B preferred shares to PreIPO Capital Partners Limited, or PreIPO Capital, for an aggregate amount of $1,999,688. A total of 329,100 series B preferred shares were sold for an aggregate amount of $24,000,637. The consideration was paid in cash. In July 2010, these China Linong series B preferred shares were exchanged for our series B preferred shares at a 1 to 1,000 ratio. On April 10, 2008, PreIPO Capital transferred all its interest in China Linong’s series B preferred shares to its affiliate, Made In China Ltd. As a result of the transfer, Made In China Ltd. replaced PreIPO Capital as the holder of series B preferred shares and held 27,420,000 series B preferred shares. All of Made in China Ltd’s series B preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares on a one-to-one basis upon the completion of our initial public offering. In June 2011, Made In China Ltd. deposited all their ordinary shares with Citibank, N.A., the depositary of our ADS program. On July 18, 2008, Sequoia China Growth Fund sold all its interest in China Linong’s series B preferred shares to its affiliates, Sequoia Capital China Growth Partners Fund I, L.P., or Sequoia China Growth Partner Fund, and Sequoia Capital China GF Principals Fund I, L.P., or Sequoia China GF Principals Fund, for a consideration of $701,860. As a result of the sale, Sequoia China Growth Partners Fund and Sequoia China GF Principals Fund each held 1,554,000 and 8,070,000 of our series B preferred shares, respectively. All of our series B preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares on an one-to-one basis upon the completion of our initial public offering. 67 Table of Contents Series B1 Preferred Shares In December 2009, pursuant to a share purchase agreement dated December 22, 2009, China Linong sold a total of 79,127 series B1 preferred shares for a total consideration of $5,989,914 to a group of investors, comprising Grow Grand, Magnetic Star Holdings Limited, or Magnetic Star, Honeycomb, Valuetrue Investments Limited, or Valuetrue, Chic Holdings Limited, or Chic Holdings, Lu Rong, SIG China, Pacven VI, Pacven VI Parallel, Sequoia China, Sequoia China Partners Fund, Sequoia China Principals Fund, Sequoia China Growth Fund, Sequoia China Growth Partners Fund, Sequoia China GF Principals Fund and Made In China Ltd. The consideration was paid in cash. In July 2010, these China Linong series B1 preferred shares were exchanged for our series B1 preferred shares at a 1 to 1,000 ratio. All of our series B1 preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares on an one-to-one basis upon the completion of our initial public offering. Shareholders Agreement In July 2010, each of the companies in our group, holders of our series A, series A1, series B, series B1 preferred shares, as well as the then existing holders of our ordinary shares entered into a shareholders agreement. The shareholders agreement contains various rights, all of which except for the registration rights were terminated immediately upon the closing of our initial public offering. Employment Agreements See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—A. Directors and Senior Management — Employment Agreements.” Share Incentive Plans See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—B. Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers — Share Incentive Plans.” C. Interests of Experts and Counsel Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information We have appended consolidated financial statements filed as part of this annual report. Legal and Administrative Proceedings From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. We are not aware of any proceedings being contemplated by any governmental authority. We are not currently a party to any material litigation or other legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation or legal proceedings that may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any dividends, nor do we have any present plan to pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business. Our board of directors has complete discretion on whether to declare and pay dividends. Our shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends or distributions, but no dividend or distribution may exceed the amount recommended by our directors. Even if our board of directors decides to pay dividends, the form, frequency and amount will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. If we pay any dividends, we will pay such dividends as are attributable to the shares represented by our ADSs to the depositary, which shall in turn pay such dividends to our ADS holders, upon and subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, including the fees and expenses payable thereunder. Cash dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be paid in U.S. dollars. 68 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends paid by our operating subsidiaries in China for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits each year to contribute to their respective reserve funds until the accumulated balance of the reserve funds reach 50% of their respective registered capital. They are also required to reserve a portion of their after-tax profits to their employee welfare and bonus fund, the amount of which is determined by their respective board of directors. These funds are not distributable in cash dividends. B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we have not experienced any significant changes since the date of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Offering and Listing Details. Our ADSs have been listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “GAGA” since October 29, 2010. The following table provides the high and low trading prices for our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the indicated periods. Sales Price High Low Annual High and Low 2010 (from October 29, 2010) 11.39 6.91 2011 10.00 3.47 Quarterly High and Low Fourth Quarter 2010 (from October 29, 2010) 11.39 6.91 First Quarter 2011 10.00 7.18 Second Quarter 2011 9.19 5.38 Third Quarter 2011 7.85 4.64 Fourth Quarter 2011 5.66 3.47 First Quarter 2012 6.00 3.60 Second Quarter 2012 5.28 3.64 Third Quarter 2012 (through July 19, 2012) 4.94 3.53 Monthly High and Low January 2012 4.55 3.60 February 2012 6.00 3.99 March 2012 5.35 4.21 April 2012 5.08 4.28 May 2012 5.28 4.67 June 2012 5.16 3.64 July 2012 (through July 19, 2012) 4.94 3.53 B. Plan of Distribution Not applicable. C. Markets Our ADSs, each representing 50 ordinary shares, have been listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market since October 29, 2010 under the symbol “GAGA.” D. Selling Shareholders Not applicable. 69 Table of Contents E. Dilution Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association The following are summaries of material provisions of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as well as the Companies Law (2011 Revision), as the same may be amended from time to time, of the Cayman Islands, which is referred to as the “Companies Law” below, insofar as they relate to the material terms of our ordinary shares. This summary is not complete, and you should read our memorandum and articles of association. Registered Office and Objects The Registered Office of our company is at the offices of Maples Corporate Services Limited, P.O. Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands or at such other place as our directors may from time to time decide. The objects for which our company is established are unrestricted and we have full power and authority to carry out any object not prohibited by the Companies Law or as the same may be revised from time to time, or any other law of the Cayman Islands. Board of Directors See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—C. Board Practices—Board of Directors.” Ordinary Shares All of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares are fully paid and non-assessable. Certificates representing the ordinary shares are issued in registered form. Shareholders who are nonresidents of the Cayman Islands may freely hold and vote their shares. Dividends The holders of our ordinary shares are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors subject to the Companies Law. Voting Rights Each ordinary share is entitled to one vote on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote. Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of our board of directors or by any one or more or our shareholders present in person or by proxy who together hold not less than 10% of the paid up voting share capital of our company. A quorum required for a meeting of shareholders consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares at the meeting present in person or by proxy or, if a corporation or other non-natural person, by its duly authorized representative. Shareholders’ meetings may be convened by our board of directors on its own initiative or upon a request to the directors by shareholders holding in aggregate at least one-third in par value of our voting share capital. Advance notice of at least 21 clear calendar days is required for the convening of our annual general meeting and other shareholders meetings. An ordinary resolution to be passed by the shareholders requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes attaching to our ordinary shares cast in a general meeting, while a special resolution requires the affirmative vote of no less than two-thirds of the votes attaching to our ordinary shares cast in a general meeting. A special resolution will be required for important matters such as a change of name or making changes to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association. 70 Table of Contents Transfer of Shares Subject to the restrictions of our articles of association, as applicable, any of our shareholders may transfer all or any of his or her ordinary shares by an instrument of transfer in the usual or common form or any other form approved by our board. Our board of directors may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any transfer of any ordinary share which is not fully paid up or on which we have a lien. Our directors may also decline to register any transfer of any ordinary share unless (a) the instrument of transfer is lodged with us, accompanied by the certificate for the ordinary shares to which it relates and such other evidence as our board of directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; (b) the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of ordinary shares; (c) the instrument of transfer is properly stamped, if required; (d) in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the ordinary share is to be transferred does not exceed four; or (e) the shares transferred are free of any lien in favor of us. If our directors refuse to register a transfer they shall, within two months after the date on which the instrument of transfer was lodged, send to each of the transferor and the transferee notice of such refusal. The registration of transfers may, on 14 days’ notice being given by advertisement in such one or more newspapers or by electronic means, be suspended and the register of members closed at such times and for such periods as our board of directors may from time to time determine, provided however, that the registration of transfers shall not be suspended nor the register be closed for more than 30 days in any year. Liquidation On a return of capital on winding up or otherwise (other than on conversion, redemption or purchase of shares), assets available for distribution among the holders of ordinary shares shall be distributed among the holders of the ordinary shares on a pro rata basis. If our assets available for distribution are insufficient to repay all of the paid-up capital, the assets will be distributed so that the losses are borne by our shareholders proportionately. Calls on Shares and Forfeiture of Shares Our board of directors may from time to time make calls upon shareholders for any amounts unpaid on their shares in a notice served to such shareholders at least 14 days prior to the specified time and place of payment. The shares that have been called upon and remain unpaid on the specified time are subject to forfeiture. Redemption, Repurchase and Surrender of Shares We may issue shares on terms that such shares are subject to redemption, at our option or at the option of the holders thereof, on such terms and in such manner as may be determined by our board, before the issue of such shares. Our company may also repurchase any of our shares provided that the manner of such purchase has been approved by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders or the manner of purchase is in accordance with our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association. Under the Companies Law, the redemption or repurchase of any share may be paid out of our company’s profits or share premium account or out of the proceeds of a fresh issue of shares made for the purpose of such redemption of repurchase, or out of capital if our company shall, immediately following such payment, be able to pay its debts as they fall due in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under the Company Law no such share may be redeemed or repurchased (a) unless it is fully paid up, (b) if such redemption or repurchase would result in there being no shares outstanding, or (c) our company has commenced liquidation. In addition, our company may accept the surrender of any fully paid share for no consideration. Variation of Rights of Shares All or any of the special rights attached to any class of shares may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Law, be varied either with the written consent of the holders of a majority of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class. Inspection of Books and Records Holders of our ordinary shares will have no general right under Cayman Islands law to inspect or obtain copies of our list of shareholders or our corporate records. However, we will provide our shareholders with annual audited financial statements. See “Item 10. Additional Information — H. Documents on Display.” 71 Table of Contents Anti-takeover Provisions in Our Memorandum and Articles of Association Some provisions of our memorandum and articles of association may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or management that shareholders may consider favorable, including a provision that authorizes our board of directors to issue preference shares in one or more series and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preference shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Such shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue these preference shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. However, under Cayman Islands law, our directors may only exercise the rights and powers granted to them under our memorandum and articles of association for a proper purpose and for what they believe in good faith to be in the best interests of our company. C. Material Contracts We have not entered into any material contracts other than in the ordinary course of business and other than those described in “