D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to continue to attract students to enroll in our programs or retain our existing students. As a result, our net revenue may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. The success of our business largely depends on our ability to attract new students and retain existing students as well as the amount of course fees our students are willing to pay, which in turn depends on a variety of factors. These factors include our ability to refine our personalized service model, improve our services, develop new programs and enhance existing programs to respond to changes in market trends and student demands, expand our geographic reach, manage our growth while maintaining the consistency of our service quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students and respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our programs or retain existing students without a significant decrease in course fees or a significant increase in selling and marketing expenses, our net revenue may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability, either of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified service professionals. As a result, we may not be able to maintain consistent service quality throughout our service network, and our brand, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our service professionals, including instructors, education consultants, study counselors and psychological counselors, are critical to maintaining the quality of our services and programs as well as our brand and reputation because they interact with our students on a regular basis and because our personalized tutoring service model requires significantly more service professionals per student than do other service models using class-based tutoring. We must continue to attract qualified service professionals who have the relevant experience, expertise and qualifications that meet our requirements, of which professionals there are a limited number. We must provide competitive compensation and benefits packages to attract and retain qualified service professionals. If we are unable to hire qualified service professionals without incurring significant incremental recruitment and compensation expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Historically, the attrition rates for our service professionals were 26.0%, 22.3% and 25.2% for 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The attrition of our service professionals has generally resulted from our performance-driven salary structure that comprises of variable components, career development prospects perceived by our service professionals and our stringent performance evaluation process and is affected by seasonality associated with the academic calendar. We had a higher attrition rate in 2011 compared to 2010, which was primarily attributable to change in the compensation structure for our education consultants started in the first half of 2011. Under our service model, education consultants are the first group of service professionals with direct contact with prospective students. Our education consultants provide preliminary consultation and assessment of the students, and help the students form a customized study plan. As such, education consultants are instrumental in both recruiting and retaining the students. Before the change to their compensation structure in the first half of 2011, our education consultants were paid immediately when students signed the service contracts and the course fees were collected. Under the changed compensation structure, a significant portion of our education consultants’ compensation would be paid on a continuous basis and as the course hours are delivered. Our goal was to require the education consultants to make more efforts retaining their students, improve customer service and foster sustainable growth. Although we anticipated a short-term increase in the resignations of education consultants following such change, the actual number of resignations in mid to late 2011 was more significant than we had anticipated. As a result, the growth in students served and course hours delivered in the second half of 2011 slowed down, which, in turn, caused a slowdown in the revenue growth in the second half of 2011 compared to the previous periods. We have taken the following measures to reverse such slowdown since the beginning of 2012: (1) vigorously recruiting new education consultants and (2) enhancing the training programs for our education consultants, with an emphasis on helping young education consultants advance in their career path and encouraging senior education consultants to be more proactive. As a general initiative, we also try to help our service professionals adapt to our business culture and enhance their internal career development opportunities in order to maintain a healthy level of attrition. However, we cannot assure you that the 4 Table of Contents programs we have developed or may adopt to retain our service professionals (including the education consultants) will be effective in allowing us to maintain our target service professional attrition levels. If we are unable to retain qualified service professionals and reduce their attrition rate without incurring significant retention expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. A small portion of our tutoring courses are delivered by instructors who are teachers at public schools and work at our learning centers on a contractual basis. The practice of paid tutoring by teachers of public schools has received increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years. Some provinces and municipalities where we have substantial business operations, such as Beijing, Tianjin, Jiangsu, Hunan, Guangdong and Shaanxi, have promulgated local regulations prohibiting public school teachers from providing paid tutoring services. Similar regulations may be adopted in more provinces and municipalities where we have substantial business operations or plan to expand our service network. In 2011, approximately 3.5% of our total course hours were delivered by contract instructors who are teachers at public schools. If these instructors choose to, or are forced to, discontinue their employment relationship with us to comply with the relevant local regulations, we will need to seek new instructors to replace them. We cannot assure you we will be able to find replacements at a reasonable cost on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, we will experience a reduced supply of instructors in those provinces and municipalities, which will further increase the strain on and difficulty of our recruiting efforts. Furthermore, while none of the existing local regulations currently imposes any penalty on service providers like us for hiring full-time public school teachers, we cannot assure you that these regulations will not be amended, or that new regulations will not be adopted, to impose such penalties in the future. In addition, we may not be able to hire and retain enough qualified service professionals to keep pace with our anticipated growth at acceptable costs and on a timely basis while maintaining consistency in the quality of our services across our learning center network. Shortages of qualified service professionals, actual or perceived decreases in the quality of our services or increases in recruiting, compensation or retention costs in one or more of our current or future markets may impede our expansion efforts and may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and results of operations. Our limited history of offering personalized tutoring services may not serve as an adequate basis for evaluating our future prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Although our founders were in the educational service business since as early as 2001, we only started our personalized tutoring services in 2004 and have experienced significant growth only since 2007. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Despite the growth in our revenue in recent years, we incurred net losses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Although we recorded net income in 2010 and 2011, we cannot guarantee you that we will remain profitable or will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that both our cost and our operating expenses will increase as we continue our business expansions and that we may face difficulties maintaining profitability. Thus, our limited operating history may not provide you with a sufficient basis upon which to evaluate our future prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses attributable to our company of $12.5 million and $1.6 million in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and recorded an accumulated shareholders’ deficit of $21.7 million as of December 31, 2009. As we expect our costs to increase as we continue to expand our business and operations, we may incur losses in the future. Although we generated net income of $10.3 million and $4.8 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. We may not be able to manage our business expansion and increasingly complicated operations effectively, which could harm our business. We have expanded rapidly in recent years and plan to continue expanding our operations primarily through organic growth. The number of our learning centers increased from 108 as of December 31, 2008 to 295 as of December 31, 2011, and is expected to continue to grow. This expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management, personnel, operational, technological and other resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations, we need to expand our existing operational, administrative, technological and financial systems, procedures and controls as well as expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations requires significant management resources. We cannot assure you that our current and planned expansion of and upgrade in personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations, or that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate any entities we may acquire or any strategic alliances we may form into our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may 5 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities and to manage our existing operations, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a part of our growth strategy, we intend to form strategic alliances and make selective complementary acquisitions and investments to help drive future growth. For example, in March 2012, Xueda Information and two individuals entered into a share transfer framework agreement with the selling shareholders of Beijing Weland International Education and Technology Corp., or Weland, a company incorporated in China that organizes Chinese students to attend various model United Nations conferences and the relevant training in the United States and China. Pursuant to this agreement, subject to certain conditions to be fulfilled by the selling shareholders of Weland, Xueda Information agrees to purchase and the selling shareholders agree to sell 60% of the equity interest in Weland for a consideration of RMB18.9 million ($3.0 million).We expect this acquisition to diversify our services. Our strategic alliances, acquisitions and investments involve substantial risks and uncertainties, including: · our ability to form strategic alliances and identify and acquire targets in a cost-effective manner; · our ability to obtain approval from relevant government authorities for the acquisitions and comply with applicable rules and regulations for such acquisitions; · our ability to integrate new operations, services and personnel; · potential ongoing financial obligations in connection with alliances and acquisitions; · potential unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including litigation claims or tax liabilities, associated with acquired entities; · the diversion of resources and management attention from our existing businesses; · failure to achieve the intended revenues and other benefits expected from the alliances, acquisitions and investments; · our ability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of alliances, acquisitions and investments; and · potential loss of, or harm to, employee or customer relationships as a result of ownership changes. If any one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the strategic objectives we contemplated is not achieved, our strategic alliances, acquisitions or investments may not be beneficial to us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to achieve or maintain economies of scale with the expansion of our network of learning centers, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The establishment of each new learning center involves an upfront investment in development of the facilities, hiring of service professionals, and incurs selling, marketing, administrative and other operating expenses. Our revenue and profitability depend on, among other things, the number of students we can attract to our new learning centers, the number of course hours they purchase, the amount of course fee they are willing to pay, as well as the cost savings we may be able to achieve by sharing administration, procurement and other resources among the various learning centers. If the new learning centers are unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset the development and operating costs, or if we are unable to effectively achieve resource sharing among the learning centers to reduce costs, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We may not be able to renew leases, control rent increases at our existing learning center locations or obtain leases at premium locations for new learning centers at reasonable prices. Except for three learning centers in Hefei, Anhui Province, Jinan, Shandong Province and Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, which have an aggregate space of 1,290 square meters, we currently lease all of the properties we use to operate our business. The term of our leases for the learning centers typically ranges from one to five years. Some of our learning centers have entered into multiple leases of multiple premises in the same building in order to obtain sufficient operational space. Some of our other learning centers operate in different buildings in the same geographic location, and therefore have multiple leases. 6 Table of Contents As a result, as of December 31, 2011, we had a total of 295 learning centers and 431 leases for these learning centers. Among these leases, 109 will expire by December 31, 2012 and 21 do not contain a priority renewal provision which provides the lessee with the right of first refusal to renew the lease on the terms and conditions offered by the lessor for renewal upon the expiration of the lease. At the end of the lease term, we may need to negotiate for a new lease or an extension of the existing lease and may be forced to find a new lease location, which could involve substantial rent increases and leasehold improvement costs. In addition, we compete with numerous other businesses for sites in a highly competitive market, and some landlords and developers may exclusively grant locations to our competitors. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases or renew existing ones on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our leases may subject us to government penalties or may be challenged by property owners or other third parties. Some of the premises of our learning centers are located on land owned by villages and rural organizations, or collectively-owned land, which is not permitted to be leased for a non-agricultural use under PRC law. Certain other of our leased properties are located on land the use of which is restricted and not permitted for our current use. As of December 31, 2011, we operated a total of 295 learning centers. As of December 31, 2011, a total of approximately 7,800 square meters of our leased properties for these learning centers, representing approximately 3.2% of the total size of our learning center leases, were located on land that cannot be used for our current purpose. Our lease of properties located on such land may subject us to government penalties at a rate we believe, based on our review of the applicable regulations, up to RMB30 ($4.8) per square meter, or up to RMB234,000 ($37,206) in total. As of the date of this annual report, we have not been subject to any penalty for leasing properties built on such land. In addition, some lessors of premises we lease for the operation of learning centers have not provided us with evidence of their valid and enforceable building ownership or evidence of their rights or authority to lease or sub-lease such properties. As of December 31, 2011, leases for properties with such lease right deficiencies amounted to approximately 15,560 square meters, representing approximately 6.3% of the total size of all of our learning center leases. We were aware of these deficiencies as a result of our due diligence investigation conducted by our local management teams prior to our entry into these leases. Our local management teams follow our procedure for identifying and assessing risks in connection with our leases, and report their findings to our management team at our corporate headquarters, who make a final business decision after assessing of the likely impact of the relevant deficiencies. Certain of these deficiencies are caused by the time required by the relevant government authorities to issue the title certificates after acquisition or change of ownership of the building, typically ranging from one to two years. Other deficiencies were outweighed by the business considerations, such as location and ease of access and rent. As of the date of this annual report, no dispute has arisen as to the legal title of any of such leased properties or our right to occupy the properties. If any such dispute were to arise, we may be required to vacate such properties under dispute and relocate, which will disrupt our tutoring services and adversely affect our customer relationship. We may also be subject to administrative penalties for our lease of properties not permitted to be used for our current purpose. If we are not able to find desirable premises to relocate to, or if relocation cannot be completed with reasonable costs and on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on the strength of our reputation and brand in the marketplace. We may not be able to attract new students or to retain existing students if we cannot continue to protect, leverage and enhance our reputation and brand successfully in the marketplace. Our operational and financial performance and the successful growth of our business are highly dependent on our reputation and market awareness of our “Xueda” brand. We believe maintaining and enhancing our reputation and our “Xueda” brand is critical to maintaining and enhancing our competitive advantage and growing our business. The personalized tutoring services we offer to primary and secondary school students throughout many provinces and municipalities in China place significant demands on us to maintain the consistency and quality of our services to ensure our reputation and brand do not suffer from any actual or perceived deterioration in the quality of our services. As we continue to grow in size, expand our services and extend our geographical reach, maintaining the quality and consistency of our services may be more difficult. Any alleged deterioration in the quality of our services or any negative publicity about our services or learning centers, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We face significant competition in the services we offer and in each geographic market in which we operate. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market share, and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In China, the educational services market, particularly the tutoring sector, is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We expect competition in this sector to persist and further intensify. We face competition from other large market participants and a number of smaller, mostly local and regional players. Moreover, competition is particularly intense in some of the key geographic markets in which we operate, such as Beijing and Shanghai. We also face competition from many different companies which focus on multiple areas related to our business and are able to cross-sell their services across their business lines. These companies may be able to more quickly adapt to changing technology, student preferences and market conditions in these markets than us and may, therefore, have a competitive advantage over us. The increasing use of the Internet and advances in Internet- and computer- related technologies are eliminating geographic and cost-entry barriers to providing tutoring services. As a result, many international companies that offer online test preparation and language training courses may decide to expand their presence in China or to try to penetrate the China market. Many of these international companies have strong education brands, and students and parents in China may be attracted to these companies’ programs for the perceived advantages these programs may offer. In addition, many smaller companies, both domestic and international, are able to use the Internet to quickly and cost-effectively offer their services to a large number of students with less capital expenditure than previously required. Competition could result in loss of market share and revenues, higher expenses and lower profit margins; it could also limit our future growth. A number of our current and potential future competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their services and products and respond more quickly than we can to changes in student needs, testing materials, admissions standards or new technologies. They also compete with us in recruiting qualified service and management professionals and may attempt to solicit our employees. In response to competition, we may have to reduce course fees or increase spending in order to retain or attract students or to pursue new market opportunities. We may also have to incur additional recruiting, compensation and retention expenses in order to attract and retain service professionals and management personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position or otherwise respond to competitive pressures in a timely and effective manner, we may lose market share and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health epidemics and other similar events, any of which could result in reduced attendance or temporary or long-term closure of our facilities. Our business could be disrupted or otherwise adversely affected by severe weather conditions, such as snow, storm or hurricane, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, health epidemics, such as an outbreak of avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, and other similar events. The occurrence of any such event could result in reduced attendance in, or even require the temporary or long-term closure of, our learning centers and other business facilities, and could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team, local management teams and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, as well as the local management teams that directly manage and operate our learning centers at the various locations throughout China. For example, Mr. Xin Jin, our co-founder and chief executive officer, and Mr. Junfeng Gao, our chief financial officer, are key to our business. If one or more members of our senior management team or a substantial number of the members of our local management teams are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily, if at all. For instance, two of our former executive officers who served as our president and chief information officer resigned in February and March 2012, respectively, for personal reasons. We may also incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified replacements, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents In 2009, 2010 and 2011, the attrition rates of our senior management team were 17%, nil and 17%, respectively, and the attrition rates of our local management team were 17%, 9% and 20%, respectively, over the same period. In addition, although each of our employees has entered into a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us, if any member of our senior management team or any of the key members of our local management teams breaches such obligations and joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose students, instructors, key professionals and staff members. Competition for experienced management personnel in the private education sector is intense, and the pool of qualified candidates is very limited. We may not be able to retain the services of our senior management team or key members of our local management teams, or attract and retain high-quality senior management team or key members of local management teams in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are not able to continually enhance our services and adapt them to rapid pedagogical innovations and evolving student needs and preferences, we may lose market share, and our business could be adversely affected. Our services and customer satisfaction are vital to the success of our business. The market for such services is characterized by rapid pedagogical innovations and evolving user preferences. We must quickly identify areas for improvement and enhance our services to adapt to any pedagogical innovation, changes in curriculum and evolving student needs and preferences. For example, we expect to continue to invest in the development and launch of supplementary online service offerings in selected academic subjects on a pilot basis to augment our tutoring services and as an aid to our personalized content delivery, but the timing of the full-scale launch of such services will only be determined based on the results of this limited pilot test. We may not be able to adapt these planned supplementary online service offerings and other services in a timely and cost-effective manner. If improvements to our services are delayed or are not aligned with market expectations, needs or preferences, we may lose market share, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new services in time, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue could be harmed. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop new services. The planned timing or introduction of new services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new services. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any of our new services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. If our efforts to develop, market and sell new services to the market are not successful, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to adequately and promptly respond to changes in curriculum, testing materials and standards or the current assessment and testing systems and admission standards in China could cause our services and products to be less attractive to our students. There have been continuous changes in the focus of the subjects and questions tested in high school and college entrance exams in China and the format of the tests and the manner in which the tests are administered. These changes require us to continually update and enhance our curriculum, test preparation materials and teaching methods. Any inability to track and respond to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner would make our services and products less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students without a significant decrease in course fees. Further, we understand the Chinese Ministry of Education, or the MOE, has been discussing reforms of the curriculum of primary and secondary schools. Therefore, school curriculum will likely undergo changes, and our tutoring programs and materials will need to be adapted for such changes. Failure to respond in a timely manner to such changes will adversely impact the marketability of our services. A substantial number of our students enroll in our tutoring programs to achieve better exam performance in school and in entrance exams. However, educational institutions and government authorities in China have initiated discussions and conducted some early experiments in China on school admissions. Generally, these discussions and experiments exhibit a trend of basing admissions decisions less on entrance exam scores and more on a combination of other factors, such as past academic record, extracurricular activities and comprehensive aptitude evaluations. There have been certain changes in some geographic areas in the way the high school entrance exam is administered. In 2011, 80 universities and colleges were allowed to recruit up to 5% of their students through independently administered tests according to a notice promulgated by the MOE, although students admitted in this manner still need to meet certain thresholds in the national college entrance exam It has been reported that the number of such universities and colleges will further increase. If the use of admissions tests in China declines or falls out of favor with educational institutions and government authorities and if we fail to respond to these changes, the demand for our tutoring services may deteriorate, and our business will be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents In the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence in our company and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the SOX. As required by Section 404 of the SOX and related rules as promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, we are required to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report. In addition, under such rules, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Using the criteria established in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal over financial reporting for the period covered by this annual report and has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you that the material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting would be successfully remediated. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that additional weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain existing controls or implement new controls would result in additional material weakness and cause us fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations which in turn could cause our shares to be de-listed or suspended from trading on the NYSE. In addition, any such failure could result in material misstatements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price or lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our reputation. In addition, we may require more resources and incur more costs than currently expected to remediate our identified material weakness or any additional material weakness that may be identified in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and our current or future competitors may independently develop intellectual property similar to ours, which could cause us to be less competitive. Our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are important to our success. Unauthorized use of any of our intellectual property may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our PRC subsidiary, Xuecheng Century, has registered various trademarks and logos, including “ “, “Xueda,” ““ and ““, with the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce in China, or the SAIC. In addition, Xuecheng Century is in the process of applying to the Trademark Office of SAIC for the registration of certain other trademarks and logos, including ““and “Elite Class” , which means “prime learning”, for our small-group tutoring programs and other trademarks and logos for our operations. Furthermore, Xuecheng Century has registered utility model and design patents with PRC Intellectual Property Bureau for certain teaching utilities it designed and developed, such as various kinds of multi-functional teaching desks. Our main website is located at www.21edu.com. In addition, although we are in the process of registering copyrights with respect to our internally developed data in our educational resource database and course materials, we may not be able to sufficiently protect these data and course materials. To date, we are not aware of any unauthorized use of or infringement upon our intellectual property. Nevertheless, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The unauthorized use of intellectual property is widespread in China, and enforcement of intellectual property 10 Table of Contents rights by Chinese regulatory agencies is inconsistent. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could disrupt our business. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties in enforcing a court judgment in China, we may be unable to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our ability to attract students, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties, which claims could cause us to pay significant damage awards or settlement payments. While to date, no material infringement claims has been brought against us, third parties may initiate litigation against us alleging infringement upon their intellectual property rights. In the event we are required to pay significant damage awards or settlement payments, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, in the event that we are prevented from using certain intellectual property rights and fail to develop or license alterative intellectual property rights on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology, license fees could be substantial and may adversely affect our results of operations. We rely heavily on our information systems, and if we fail to further develop our technologies, or if our systems, software, applications, database or source code contain “bugs” or other undetected errors, our operations may be seriously disrupted. The successful development and maintenance of our systems, software, applications and database, such as the information technology infrastructure underlying our personalized service delivery model, is critical to the attractiveness of our tutoring programs and management of our business operations. In order to achieve our strategic objectives and remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our technology. These efforts may require us to acquire additional equipment and software and develop new applications. In addition, our technology platform, upon which our management systems and online programs operate, and our other databases, products, systems and source codes could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. To date, our information systems have not encountered material errors or technical issues that have adversely affected or disrupted our operations. If we encounter errors or other service quality or reliability issues, or if we are unable to design, develop, implement and utilize information systems and the data derived from these systems, our ability to realize our strategic objectives and our profitability could be adversely affected, which may cause us to lose market share, harm our reputation and brand names, and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks and system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain satisfactory performance, reliability, security or availability of our network infrastructure may cause significant damage to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain students. Major risks involving our network structure include: · breakdowns or system failures resulting in a prolonged shutdown of our servers, including failures attributable to power shutdowns, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems, which may cause loss or corruption of data, including customer data, or malfunctions of software or hardware; · disruption or failure in the national backbone network; · damage from fire, flood, power loss and telecommunications failures; and · any infection by or spread of computer virus. To date, we have not encountered any material unexpected network interruptions, security breaches, computer virus attacks or system failures. However, any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our websites or deterioration in the quality of access to our websites could reduce customer satisfaction and result in a decrease in the number of students using our services. In addition, we may be subject to security breach caused by a computer hacker, which could involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems or personal information stored in our systems or cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. As a result, we may be 11 Table of Contents required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Furthermore, increases in the volume of traffic on our websites could strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This result would cause a disruption or suspension in our internal management or our online presence and programs, which would harm our brand and reputation and thus negatively affect our net revenue growth. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if we anticipate our systems cannot handle higher volumes of traffic in the future. All of our servers and routers, including backup servers, are currently hosted by us within China. We do not currently maintain any backup servers outside of China. To improve performance and prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our websites to mirror our online resources. Any significant interruption in the operations of our data storage center could cause a loss of data and adversely affect our ability to manage our network and technological infrastructure. We host most of our data relating to our services, learning centers and operations in our data storage center in Beijing and have contracted with an outside provider for data backup services. We have not experienced any significant interruption. However, our current data backup arrangements may not be adequate to prevent an interruption or loss of our operational data due to natural disasters, fire, power interruption, act of terrorism or other unanticipated catastrophic events. Any significant interruptions or loss of data as a result of these events or our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems could reduce our ability manage our network and technological infrastructure and have an adverse impact on our business operations. Any significant interruption in the operations of our call center could adversely affect our ability to respond to potential customers’ inquiries and other service requests in a timely manner. We have a call center in Beijing which responds to inquiries from potential customers and provides customer service to our existing customers. We have not experienced any significant interruption in the operations of our call center. We do not currently have a risk mitigation plan for our call center to prevent an interruption of its operation due to natural disasters, accidents or other events. Any significant interruptions as a result of these events or our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage the necessary expansions or upgrades in the call center could reduce our ability to respond to customer inquiries or service requests, which could in turn result in the loss of potential customers and damage our reputation. We do not have any liability or business disruption insurance, and liability claims against us such as those due to injuries suffered by our students or other people at our facilities could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. We could be held liable for accidents that occur at our learning centers or otherwise arise out of our operations. In the event of personal injuries, fires or other accidents suffered by students or other people, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or otherwise liable for the injuries. The business insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development, and insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We currently do not have any liability insurance or business disruption insurance. A successful liability claim against us due to injuries suffered by our students or other people at our facilities could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause unfavorable publicity and require substantial cost to defend and divert the time and attention of our management. Our grant of employee share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation and any future grants could have an adverse effect on our net income. U.S. GAAP prescribes how we account for share-based compensation and may have an adverse or negative impact on our results of operations or the price of our ADSs. U.S. GAAP requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing share options, restricted shares or other stock-based awards under our 2009 share incentive plan. However, if we do not grant share options, restricted shares or other stock-based awards, or reduce the number of share options, restricted shares or other stock-based awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more share options, restricted shares or other stock-based awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. 12 Table of Contents Some of our learning centers may be deemed by government authorities to operate beyond their authorized business scope, which could expose us to certain risks. Based on the advice of our PRC counsel, we understand that under the framework and general principles of the PRC Education Law and Law for Promoting Private Education and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education, the operation of afterschool tutoring classes is not in violation of PRC laws and regulations. Under the relevant PRC laws, regulations and administrative requirements, if a company either obtains a permit from the relevant education authority to operate private tutoring schools or includes the relevant services in the authorized scope of business as specified in its business licenses, it could operate private learning centers. As of December 31, 2011, we operated a total of 295 learning centers. 187 of these learning centers had been either operated under private tutoring schools with the prerequisite permits or operated under the subsidiaries of our VIE with “tutoring services” in the business scope of their respective business licenses. However, 61 of these learning centers had included, among others, “education information” or “education technology related consultation” in their respective authorized scopes of business, but were not affiliated with private tutoring schools with the prerequisite permits, nor did they have “tutoring services” in their scope of business. The relevant PRC laws, regulations and administrative requirements do not clearly provide whether companies operating such private learning centers also need to specifically include “tutoring services” in their authorized scope of business. We cannot assure you that these of our VIE’s subsidiaries will not be deemed to have exceeded the authorized scope of their respective business licenses. In addition, 47 of our learning centers do not have “tutoring services” or any education related services in their authorized scope of their business licenses, nor are these learning centers operated by schools with the prerequisite licenses. For the latter 108 learning centers, we are in the process of expanding the authorized scope of business for relevant subsidiaries of our VIE and, as applicable, applying for the permit for their tutoring services at minimal cost. We are uncertain of the time it may take to expand the business scope of the relevant subsidiaries of our VIE. In addition, it normally takes three to six months to obtain such permit or expand the relevant business scope. Our VIE, Xueda Information’s subsidiaries engaging in services exceeding the authorized business scope stated in their business licenses may be ordered to complete the registration for change of business scope within a given period, failing which each company is subject to a one-time fine of RMB10,000 to RMB100,000. Under the PRC Administrative Penalties Law, these fines would not be assessed multiple times against the same entity for the same non-compliant act. In addition, under the PRC Regulations on Company Registration, or the Company Registration Regulations, and other relevant regulations, if a company conducts its business beyond its authorized business scope and in violation of other relevant regulations, it may be ordered to cease its operation. To date, none of our existing learning centers operated by Xueda Information and its subsidiaries has been imposed any administrative penalties including fines. As we continue to expand our tutoring network, the new learning centers we establish will be engaging in substantially identical business operations as those of our existing learning centers. As a result, our new learning centers will be subject to the same risks as our existing learning centers with respect to their operations outside their respective authorized scope of business. Rules and regulations issued by certain government authorities may restrict or prohibit after-class tutoring services. Similar or more stringent rules or regulations that limit our ability to offer our services may be introduced in the future and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain local government authorities had in the past issued notices or rules which prohibit private schools from offering after-school tutoring services by themselves or through cooperation with public schools. However, local government practices are inconsistent among the cities where we operate in implementing and enforcing such notices or rules. We have obtained the required education permits or business licenses for our tutoring services in most of these cities. None of our local operations has been subject to any penalties or other regulatory actions for violation of such notices or rules. In July 2010, the MOE issued the National Guidance on Mid- to Long-term Education Reform and Development, or the National Education Guidance, which expressly requires, among others, governments at various levels to subject private after-school tutoring service providers to appropriate regulation. We believe that the National Education Guidance reflects the latest developments of the PRC central government’s policy, which supports an appropriately regulated after-school tutoring sector rather than prohibits the after-school tutoring business. Based on the above reasons, we do not believe that these prohibitive local notices and rules will likely have any material effect on our business operations or expansion. However, if the local government authorities in any of the relevant cities start strictly enforcing the existing prohibitive notices or rules, or if future government rules and regulations entirely prohibit us from offering after-class tutoring services or impose more stringent limitations on the type or range of after-class tutoring services that we may offer, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China has passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the Regulation on the Implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Implementation Rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives previously granted to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The EIT Law (i) reduces the statutory rate of the enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules promulgated by the State Council on December 26, 2007, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Under PRC laws and regulations, an enterprise that qualifies as a software enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits. Xuecheng Century was certified as a software enterprise in April 2010 and as a result is eligible for a two-year exemption of income tax from the first year it generates taxable income, followed by a 12.5% income tax rate for another three years. Such preferential tax treatment must be filed with tax authorities and software enterprises are subject to annual assessment. Enterprises which have not passed the annual assessment are not entitled to the above preferential treatments. If Xuecheng Century fails to maintain the status of a software enterprise, it will not be able to enjoy the reduced tax rate, and its tax rate will increase to 25% or the then current rate. If PRC laws and regulations were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to software enterprises, Xuecheng Century would be subject to the standard enterprise income tax rate, which currently is 25%. Loss of this preferential tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by a severe and prolonged global economic downturn and the corresponding slowdown of the Chinese economy. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with recession in most major economies persisting in 2009 and significant market volatility since then. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a potentially long-term and widespread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to unprecedented volatility levels. The Chinese economy also faces challenges. The stimulus plans and other measures implemented by the Chinese government may not work effectively or quickly enough to maintain economic growth in China or avert a severe economic downturn. Since we derive all of our revenues from our operations in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our revenues depend on our students’ spending on tutoring services, which in turn depends on the level of current and expected household disposable income and willingness to spend of the students’ families. As there are still substantial uncertainties in the current and future conditions of global and Chinese economies, our potential customers may reduce their spending on tutoring services or seek less expensive alternatives. Moreover, since we require prepayment of course fees, certain potential customers who prefer installment payments due to economic and other concerns may be or may become unwilling or unable to purchase our services. Further disruptions of the financial markets could also significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions, if and when such financing is needed. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of cities in China. Any event negatively affecting the private education industry in these cities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we generated approximately 12.9% of our net revenue from learning centers located in Beijing. The next five cities where we derived most revenues, including Xi’an, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Tianjin and Nanjing, collectively contributed approximately 31.5% of our net revenue for 2011. We expect these cities to continue to constitute important sources of our revenues. If any of these cities experiences an event negatively affecting its private education industry, such as a severe economic downturn, a natural disaster or outbreak of contagious disease, or if any of these cities adopts regulations relating to private education that place additional restrictions or burdens on us, our overall business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be, directly or indirectly, affected by misconduct of other educational service providers. The tutoring sector in China is rapidly developing, and we, like all other participants in the sector, are still enhancing our brand awareness and building trust with students and their parents, which is critical to our business. Actual or perceived misconduct or bankruptcy of other similar service providers may lead to the distrust of tutoring by students and their parents, and we may suffer from reduced business as a result. Misconduct or bankruptcy of third parties, as well as any allegation or perception of such, is beyond our control, and if any such event occurs, it may have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of Our Business and Our Corporate Structure All aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation in China. We may not be in full compliance with these regulations, and our ability to conduct business is highly dependent on our compliance with this regulatory framework. If the PRC government finds the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for our business operations do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. The Chinese government regulates all aspects of our business and operations, including licensing of parties to perform various services, standards for the operations of learning centers and foreign investments in the education industry. The laws and regulations applicable to the education sector are subject to amendments from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be adopted, some of which may negatively affect our business, either retroactively or prospectively. We are a Cayman Islands company and, as such, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under Chinese laws, and our PRC subsidiary, Xuecheng Century, is a foreign-invested enterprise. Due to PRC legal restrictions on foreign ownership and investment in the education business in China, we conduct our learning center business in China primarily through a series of contractual arrangements between Xuecheng Century, and its affiliated entities and persons in China such as our VIE, Xueda Information, and its shareholders. Our VIE and its subsidiaries are the entities that hold certain licenses and permits relating to our tutoring business in China. We have been and expect to continue to be dependent on our VIE and its subsidiaries to operate our business. In the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, (i) the ownership structures of Xueda Information and its subsidiaries, and our PRC subsidiary, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; and (ii) the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiary, Xueda Information, and the shareholders of Xueda Information are valid, binding and enforceable under, and will not result in any violation of, PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current and future PRC laws, regulations and rules; accordingly, the PRC regulatory authorities may take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC legal counsel. For example, the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011 and replaced the Interim Provisions of the Ministry of Commerce on Matters Relating to the Implementation of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by MOFCOM in March 2011. According to these circulars and rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having “national defense and security” concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” concerns. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review, the MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that our tutoring services fall into the scope subject to the security review, and there is no requirement for foreign investors in those mergers and acquisitions transactions already completed prior to the promulgation of Circular No. 6 to submit such transactions to MOFCOM for security review. As we have already obtained the “de facto control” over our VIE prior to the effectiveness of these circulars and rules, we do not believe we are required to submit our existing contractual arrangement to the MOFCOM for security review. However, we are advised by our PRC legal counsel that, as these circulars and rules are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation on the implementation of the same, there is no assurance that the MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying these national security review-related circulars and rules. In addition, various media sources have recently reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, has prepared a report for the State Council suggesting regulating the use of the VIE structure, such as ours, in the context of foreign investment in China and overseas listings. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC has officially submitted such a report, what specific content such report contains and whether and when any further action will be taken by the State Council, the CSRC, the MOFCOM or any other PRC government authority regarding the use of the VIE structure. 15 Table of Contents Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. If our ownership structure and contractual arrangements are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the MOFCOM Security Review Rules and any future regulations regarding the use of the VIE structure promulgated by any PRC government authority, or we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or permits, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities including the MOE and the MOFCOM, which regulate the education industry and foreign investment in China, respectively, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities; · discontinuing or restricting the operations of any related party transactions among our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities; · imposing fines or other requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities may not be able to comply; · requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities to restructure or unwind the relevant ownership structure or operations; or · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIE and its shareholders for substantially all of our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our VIE and its shareholders to operate our education business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our VIE and its subsidiaries. If we had direct ownership of our VIE and its subsidiaries, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of our VIE and its subsidiaries, which could then effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary duties, at the management level. We may have to incur significant cost to enforce, or may not be able to effectively enforce, the contractual arrangements with our VIE and its shareholders in the event of a breach or non-compliance by our VIE or its shareholders. If our VIE or any of its shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce such arrangements. We may also rely on legal remedies under PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, but these remedies may not be effective. For example, provided that the then-applicable laws permit, if the shareholders of our VIE were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in the VIE to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. In addition, these contractual arrangements, including the Amended and Restated Exclusive Technology Consulting and Management Service Agreement, the Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement, the Amended and Restated Exclusive Purchase Right Contract and the related powers of attorney, are governed by PRC law, and all but the powers of attorney provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration before the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Center, or CIETAC, in Beijing. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes arising from these arrangements would be resolved through arbitration before CIETAC or, in the case of disputes arising from the powers of attorney, through litigation in the PRC, in each case in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC may not be as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Furthermore, although CIETAC may award the same type of relief to the prevailing party in an arbitration proceeding as that granted by a court in a civil action, CIETAC does not have the authority to enforce arbitral awards. In the event that we prevail in an arbitration proceeding before CIETAC, we may nevertheless have to apply to a PRC court for the enforcement of the arbitral award relating to the contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not 16 Table of Contents be able to exert effective control over our affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business would be materially and adversely affected. Certain shareholders of our VIE may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may harm our business and financial condition. Currently, the major shareholders of our VIE are also principal beneficial owners of our company. Certain shareholders of our VIE also are directors and/or employees of our company. Conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and those as the major shareholders of our VIE may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause our VIE or its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control our VIE and its subsidiaries and to receive economic benefits from them. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address such potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on those of our VIE’s shareholders who are also our directors to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, both of which provide that directors owe a fiduciary duty to our company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the beneficial owners of our VIE, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. The contractual arrangements our PRC subsidiary has entered into with our VIE and its shareholders may result in adverse tax consequences to us; such arrangements may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or our VIE and its shareholders owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties should be priced on an arm’s-length basis and may be subject to audit or challenge by PRC tax authorities. We could face material adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between Xuecheng Century and our VIE and its shareholders do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust our VIE’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in, for PRC tax purposes, increased tax liabilities for our VIE. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to disgorge our prior tax benefits or pay additional taxes for prior tax years and impose late payment fees and other penalties on our VIE and its subsidiaries for underpayment of prior taxes. Similar contractual arrangements have been used by many other overseas-listed China-based companies and, to our knowledge, the PRC tax authorities have not imposed any material penalties on those companies to date. However, we cannot assure you that such penalties will not be imposed on us in the future and we are not able to assess with any degree of certainty the likelihood or remoteness of regulatory authorities implementing the relevant laws and regulations in a way that would materially and adversely affect our business. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our VIE’s and its subsidiaries’ tax liabilities increase or if our VIE or its subsidiaries are found to be subject to additional taxes, late payment fees or other penalties. Our VIE and its subsidiaries may be subject to significant limitations on their ability to sponsor and operate private tutoring schools or make payments to related parties or otherwise be materially and adversely affected by changes in PRC laws and regulations. The principal regulations governing private education in China are The Law for Promoting Private Education (2003) and The Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education (2004), or PE Implementation Rules. Under these laws and regulations, a private school may elect to be a school that does not distribute reasonable returns or a school that distributes reasonable returns. As of December 31, 2011, 75 of our 77 schools were registered as private schools that distribute reasonable returns, and the remaining 2 of our schools were registered as schools that do not distribute reasonable returns. At the end of each fiscal year, every private school is required to allocate a certain amount to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of the school or procurement or upgrading of educational equipment. In the case of a private school that distributes reasonable returns, this amount may not be less than 25% of the annual net income of the schools, while in the case of a private school that does not distribute reasonable returns, this amount should be equivalent to no less than 25% of the annual increase of net assets of the school as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC. All of the private tutoring schools controlled by our VIE and its respective subsidiaries currently comply with the existing laws and regulations regarding the allocation of their development funds. A private school that distributes reasonable returns must publicly disclose such election and additional information required under the regulations. A private school should consider factors such as the school’s tuition fees, ratio of the funds used for education-related activities to the course fees 17 Table of Contents collected, admission standards and educational quality when determining the percentage of the school’s net income that would be distributed to the investors as reasonable returns. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining “reasonable returns.” In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth different requirements or restrictions on a private school’s ability to operate its education business based on such school’s status as a school that requires reasonable returns or a school that does not require reasonable returns. New laws or regulations might be adopted to: · impose significant limitations on the ability of our private tutoring schools to operate their business, charge course fees or make payments to related parties; or · specify the formula for calculating “reasonable returns.” We cannot predict the timing and effects or assess the likelihood or remoteness, of any such amendments or new laws and regulations. Changes in PRC laws and regulations governing private education or otherwise affecting our VIE’s and its subsidiaries’ operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. If our VIE or any of its subsidiaries becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our VIE or any of its subsidiaries, which could reduce the size of our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenue and the market price of our ADSs. We currently conduct our operations in China through contractual arrangements with our VIE and its shareholders. As part of these arrangements, our VIE and its subsidiaries hold some of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. If any of these entities goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our VIE or any of its subsidiaries undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, which would hinder our ability to operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenue and the market price of our ADSs. Risk Factors Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s political, economic and social conditions. Currently, all of our operations are conducted in China, and all of our revenues are derived from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and certain transactions we may undertake are subject, to a significant extent, to political, economic and social developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, foreign exchange control and allocation of resources. Although the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling the incurrence and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by a tightening or other changes of these policies and controls. China’s social and political conditions are also not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries. Any sudden changes to China’s political system or the occurrence of widespread social unrest could have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. In addition, while the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past several decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Demand for our services depends, in large part, on economic conditions in China. Any slowdown in China’s economic growth may cause our potential customers to delay or cancel their plans to purchase our services, which in turn could reduce our revenue. 18 Table of Contents There are significant uncertainties under the EIT Law relating to the withholding tax liabilities of our PRC subsidiary, and dividends payable by our PRC subsidiary to our Hong Kong subsidiary may not qualify to enjoy the treaty benefits. Under the EIT Law and the EIT Implementation Rules, the profits of a foreign invested enterprise generated in 2008 and onwards which are distributed to its immediate holding company outside the PRC will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. Pursuant to a special arrangement between Hong Kong and the PRC, such rate may be lowered to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of a PRC company. Our PRC subsidiary is currently wholly-owned by our Hong Kong subsidiary. However, the 5% withholding tax rate does not automatically apply and approvals from competent local tax authorities are required before an enterprise can enjoy any benefits under the relevant taxation treaties. Moreover, according to the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Issues Regarding the Administration of the Dividend Provision in Tax Treaties promulgated on February 20, 2009, for a tax treaty to be applicable, certain requirements must be satisfied, including: (1) the taxpayer must be the beneficial owner of the relevant dividends; (2) for corporate recipients to enjoy the favorable tax treatment under the tax treaty as direct owners of a PRC enterprise, such corporate recipients must satisfy the direct ownership thresholds at all times during the 12 consecutive months preceding the receipt of the dividends. On August 24, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Administrative Measures for Non-resident Enterprises to Enjoy Treatments under Tax Treaties (For Trial Implementation), which became effective on October 1, 2009, requiring non-resident enterprises to obtain an approval from the competent tax authority in order to enjoy the treatments under tax treaties. Further, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Recognize the “Beneficial Owner” in Tax Treaties on October 27, 2009, which limits the “beneficial owner” to individuals, enterprises or other organizations normally engaged in substantive operations, and set forth certain adverse factors on the recognition of such “Beneficial Owner.” Our PRC subsidiary has not yet applied for such approvals because it has not declared or paid dividends, and does not intend to declare or pay dividends. Our PRC subsidiary will apply for such approvals when it intends to declare and pay dividends. There is no assurance that the PRC tax authorities will approve the 5% withholding tax rate on dividends received by our Hong Kong subsidiary from our PRC subsidiary. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law and the EIT Implementation Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The EIT Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The SAT issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Following Circular 82, on August 3, 2011, the SAT issued Administrative Measures on Income Taxes of Resident Enterprises Incorporated outside Mainland China and Are Controlled by Chinese Enterprises (Trial Implementation), or Resident Enterprise Administrative Measures, which was effective as of September 1, 2011. This Resident Enterprise Administrative Measures provides clarification of resident status determination, post-determination administration, as well as competent tax authorities. However, Circular 82 and Resident Enterprise Administrative Measures apply only to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those invested in by PRC individuals, like our company. Currently there are no further detailed rules or precedents applicable to us governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining “de facto management body” for the company of our type. We do not believe we are a resident enterprise defined and regulated by the aforesaid regulations as none of our shareholders is a PRC company or PRC corporate group. However, it remains unclear how PRC tax authorities will determine the tax residency status of companies like us. If the PRC authorities were to subsequently determine, or any future regulation provides, that we should be treated as a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income, which will significantly increase our tax burden and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Therefore, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders may be decreased, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiary, Xuecheng Century, to us could be exempted from the PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the EIT Law and the EIT Implementation Rules to a PRC resident recipient. If we are considered a PRC resident enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs or ordinary shares may be considered income derived from sources within the PRC and subject to PRC withholding tax of 10%. In addition, non-PRC shareholders may be subject to PRC tax on gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is treated as sourced from within the PRC. It is unclear whether our non-PRC shareholders would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise. 19 Table of Contents The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in China may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the laws that it replaced, the Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers to dismiss employees under certain circumstances, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, non-fixed-term employment contracts, task-based employment, contract-based employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee representative’s council, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and for overtime work and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, unless otherwise provided by law, an employer is obliged to sign a labor contract with a non-fixed term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts or if the employee has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Severance pay is required if a labor contract expires without renewal because the employer refuses to renew the labor contract or provides less favorable terms for renewal. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from five to 15 days, depending on the number of years the employee has worked for the employer. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers are entitled to compensation equal to three times their regular daily salary for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new measures designed to enhance labor protection, our labor costs have increased and could further increase, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In addition, the PRC government in the future may enact further labor-related legislation that increases our labor costs and restricts our operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. As our main operating entities and a substantial majority of our assets are located in China, PRC laws and the PRC legal system in general may have a significant impact on our business operations. Although China’s legal system has developed over the last several decades, PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements remain underdeveloped relative to those of the United States. Moreover, PRC laws and regulations change frequently and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, the interpretation or enforcement of PRC laws and regulations may be subject to government rules or policies, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all. In addition, the relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in some cases may add to the uncertainty as to the outcome of litigation. These uncertainties could limit our ability to enforce our legal or contractual rights or otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, due to the existence of unpublished rules and policies, and since newly issued PRC laws and regulations may have a retroactive effect, we may not be aware of our violation of certain PRC laws, regulations, policies or rules until after the fact. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. Because currently all of our revenue is denominated in RMB, restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use net income generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China in the future. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB is freely convertible for current account items, such as trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions and dividend distributions, but not for direct investment, or loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiary’s capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. Our VIE and its subsidiaries generate revenues in RMB. We receive substantially all of our VIE’s and its subsidiaries’ economic benefits in the form of service fees they pay to our PRC subsidiary in RMB pursuant to a series of contractual arrangements. As we do not own any equity interest in our VIE and its subsidiaries, we do not receive any dividends or other direct distributions from them. If and when our PRC subsidiary declares and pays dividends to Xueda Hong Kong, by virtue of its status as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, it will be permitted under applicable regulations to convert the RMB dividends into a foreign currency and remit to its shareholder outside of the PRC. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Dividend Distribution” for additional requirements for distribution of dividends by a wholly foreign-owned enterprise. In addition, in the event that our PRC subsidiary liquidates, proceeds from the liquidation may be converted into foreign currency and distributed outside of China to Xueda Hong Kong. The shareholders of our VIE have undertaken to distribute the proceeds from liquidation of our VIE, if any, to our PRC subsidiary. Our PRC subsidiary then may distribute such proceeds to us after converting them into foreign currency and remit them outside of China 20 Table of Contents in the form of dividends or other distributions to us. Once remitted outside of the PRC, dividends and proceeds from liquidation paid to us will not be subject to further restrictions under PRC regulations with respect to its further transfer or use. Other than the above distributions by and through our PRC subsidiary expressly permitted to be made without the necessity to obtain further approvals, any direct conversion of the RMB-denominated revenue generated by our VIE and its subsidiaries for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China will be subject to the limitations discussed above. We do not anticipate the need to directly convert other RMB-denominated revenue for these purposes as we expect to rely on such permitted distributions by and through our PRC subsidiary to meet our future cash needs. However, we cannot assure you that such a need will not arise in the future as a result of unexpected future circumstances. To the extent we need to convert and use any RMB-denominated revenue generated by our VIE and its subsidiaries not paid to our PRC subsidiary and by our PRC subsidiary not declared and paid as dividends, the limitations discussed above will restrict the convertibility of, and our ability to directly receive and use such revenue. As a result, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. A failure by our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 75. SAFE Circular 75 states that PRC citizens or residents must register with the relevant local SAFE branch or central SAFE in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving a roundtrip investment whereby the offshore entity acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests held by the PRC citizens or residents. In addition, such PRC citizens or residents must amend their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose company undergoes material changes relating to increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, external guarantees or other material events. Although our beneficial owners who are known to us to be PRC residents have registered with SAFE and have completed their current amendment registrations under SAFE Circular 75, if any of them or our future beneficial owners who are PRC residents fails to complete any applicable registration or amend previously filed registrations as required under SAFE Circular 75, our onshore subsidiary, Xuecheng Century, is required to report the non-compliance to the local branch of SAFE. Failure or inability to comply with the registration procedures may restrict our cross-border investment activities and result in restrictions on the relevant onshore entity, including restrictions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under the PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the revised policy, which was suspended in 2008 due to the worldwide financial crisis, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. In June 2010, the PRC government announced its intentions to again allow the RMB to fluctuate within the 2005 parameters. Since July 21, 2005, there has been a more than 20% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant adjustment of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. More specifically, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from our initial public offering into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Consequently, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of shares and share options held by our employees who are PRC citizens may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules promulgated by SAFE on January 5, 2007, and the Circular on Relevant Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange Regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Incentive Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies issued by SAFE on February 15, 2012 and effective as of the same date, which replaced the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Incentive Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies issued by SAFE on March 28, 2007, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to file with the applicable local branch of SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. In addition, the overseas-listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator and a custodian bank, and open special foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. Under the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules (1996), as amended, the foreign exchange proceeds of domestic entities and individuals can be remitted into China or deposited abroad, subject to the terms and conditions to be issued by SAFE. However, the implementation rules in respect of depositing the foreign exchange proceeds abroad have not been issued by SAFE. Currently, the foreign exchange proceeds from the sales of stock or dividends distributed by the overseas-listed company can be converted into RMB or transferred to such individuals’ foreign exchange savings account after the proceeds have been remitted back to the special foreign currency account opened at a PRC domestic bank. In the case of an exercise of the options on a non-cash basis, PRC citizens are required to remit the proceeds to special foreign currency accounts. We and our PRC citizen employees are subject to these rules. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Foreign Exchange.” PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we received from our initial public offering, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds we received from our initial public offering, as an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiary, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiary, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. Any loans to our PRC subsidiary or consolidated PRC affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations and approvals or registration. For example, loans by us to our PRC subsidiary to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. In addition, loans by us to our VIE and its subsidiaries, which are domestic PRC entities, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. Any capital contribution to our PRC subsidiary and VIE are subject to the approvals of MOFCOM or its local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiary. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In addition, on August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of its capital contribution in foreign currency into RMB. The notice requires that the capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB and converted from foreign currencies may be used only for purposes within the business scope stated on the business license of the company and, unless otherwise permitted by other regulations, may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB and converted from foreign currencies. The use of such RMB capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, including the substantial fines set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 19, 2010, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. As stated on its business license, Xuecheng Century’s scope of business is the research, development and design of computer software and hardware, network technologies, communication technologies and products; the provision of technology transfer, technology services, technology consulting, training in computer technologies related to these products; as well as the sale of proprietary products. We currently expect that a substantial portion of the proceeds of our initial public offering we received will be used by Xuecheng Century to meet its working capital needs and for general corporate expenses in 22 Table of Contents connection with its business expansion through providing better support to the operations of our VIE and its subsidiaries. Specifically, Xuecheng Century will make substantial investments to improve our operating platform and technology infrastructure. Xuecheng Century will also make significant investments in developing and offering new services and products to our students through our VIE and its subsidiaries to enhance our tutoring services. In addition, Xuecheng Century will enhance its services to our VIE and subsidiaries through establishing operations in selected locations where our VIE and its subsidiaries operate their business and providing other services as needed. These uses of proceeds are for purposes within the business scope of Xuecheng Century. Meanwhile, we believe that our VIE will have adequate cash from its operations to support its own operation and expansion. Therefore, we do not expect to transfer any significant amount of the proceeds of our initial public offering we received to our VIE or its subsidiaries. However, to the extent we need to transfer any proceeds of our initial public offering to our VIE or its subsidiaries through our PRC subsidiary, Circular 142 and Circular 59 may significantly limit our ability to do so. In such an event, we may have to obtain external financing for our VIE or its subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will have timely access to such funding on reasonable terms, in a sufficient amount, or at all. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to make dividend payments and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends or other distributions to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our other businesses. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. In order for us to distribute any dividends to our shareholders and ADS holders or meet other potential future cash needs, we will rely on dividend payment and other distributions made by our PRC subsidiary. As of the date of this annual report, our PRC subsidiary has not paid any dividend to us. Although we believe our PRC subsidiary has the ability to pay dividends to us upon our request, we do not expect to request dividends from our PRC subsidiary in the near future because we plan to have our PRC subsidiary retain all its accumulated profits for its own business operation and expansion. Furthermore, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiary to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiary only out of its accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiary is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards to a statutory reserve fund until the cumulative amount in such fund reaches 50% of the company’s registered capital. Our PRC subsidiary currently has a registered capital of $420,000 and is in compliance with all applicable PRC laws and regulations relating to the allocation of statutory funds. Allocations to this statutory fund can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or dividends. Our PRC subsidiary was established in 2009 and did not realize any after-tax profits in 2009 and, therefore, no such allocation was required. As of December 31, 2011, our PRC subsidiary had allocated $0.2 million to these statutory reserve funds. As a result, not all funds of our PRC subsidiary are available to us and our access to such funds is restricted. These and any other limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We may have been required to obtain prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory authorities, including MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the CSRC and the SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and were amended on June 22, 2009. These regulations, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals, must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange, including the case where the SPV acquires shares of or equity interests in the PRC companies in exchange for the shares of offshore companies. The application of the M&A Regulations is subject to interpretation. On December 14, 2006, the CSRC published procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by SPVs. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of a number of documents with the CSRC, and it would take several months to complete the approval process. Under the M&A Regulations, “mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors” refers to a situation where a foreign investor purchases by agreement the equity interests of a domestic non-foreign-invested enterprise, or a domestic company, or subscribes to the increased capital of a domestic company, and thus changes the domestic company into a foreign-invested enterprise; where a foreign investor establishes a foreign-funded enterprise, through which the foreign investor purchases by agreement the assets of a domestic enterprise and operates its assets; or where a foreign investor purchases by agreement the assets of a domestic enterprise, and then invests such assets to establish a foreign-funded enterprise to operate the assets. 23 Table of Contents While the exact perimeters of the M&A Regulations remain unclear, based on the advice of our PRC counsel, because the M&A Regulations only apply to transactions involving “mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors,” we believe that (i) the M&A Regulations were not applicable to our corporate restructuring in 2009 and 2010 and (ii) CSRC approval was not required in the context of our initial public offering in 2010, for the following reasons: (a) we established our PRC subsidiary by means of direct investment, not through merger or acquisition of any PRC domestic companies and (b) we control our VIE and its subsidiaries through contractual arrangements, not through “mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors” as defined under the M&A Regulations. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel did. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that we should have obtained the CSRC’s approval for our initial public offering either by interpretation, clarification or amendment of the M&A Regulations or by any new rules, regulations or directives or in any other ways promulgated after the issuance date of the legal opinion of our PRC counsel, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such an event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operations in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Regulations established more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisition in China. The M&A Regulations established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Regulations in such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business through acquisitions in China. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The trading price for our ADSs may fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other education companies, announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar, intellectual property litigation, announcements of new business initiatives by us or by our competitors, recruitment or departure of key personnel, changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts electing to follow our securities or the securities of our competitors, changes in the economic or political conditions in China and the impact of global macroeconomic conditions. For example, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets, such as the large decline in share prices in the United States, China and other jurisdictions in late 2008, early 2009 and the second half of 2011. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs regardless of our actual operating performance. In recent years, a number of PRC companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on the U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility in the prices of their securities, including significant price declines in connection with and following their initial public offerings, due to various reasons, including actual or perceived inadequacy in corporate governance, accounting or business practices or financial reporting. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and price for our ADSs. Future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares by existing shareholders or option holders could cause our ADSs’ price to decline. If our existing shareholders sell, indicate an intention to sell, or are perceived to intend to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market and other legal restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our ADSs could decline. As of December 31, 2011, we had 133,505,836 outstanding ordinary shares. Of these shares, only 33,594,566 ordinary shares represented by ADSs were freely tradable without restriction in the public market. The other 99,911,270 outstanding ordinary shares were eligible for sale in the public market, subject to limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, an additional 9,550,652 ordinary shares subject to outstanding options and the 1,487,418 unvested restricted shares granted under our 2009 share incentive plan will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our ADSs could decline. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations, and the related covenants could restrict our operations and business activities. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If our internal resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of educational service providers; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in education in China; · economic, political and other conditions in China; and · PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that, if we need additional cash, financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially in the event of a severe and prolonged global economic recession. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. Without additional capital, we may not be able to open additional schools and learning centers, acquire necessary technologies, products or business, hire, train and retain teachers and other employees, market our programs, services and products, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. 25 Table of Contents Many of the corporate governance rules promulgated by the NYSE do not apply to us so long as we qualify as a foreign private issuer, and there may be significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. domestic companies listed on the NYSE. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow corporate governance practices in accordance with Cayman Islands law in lieu of most of the NYSE corporate governance rules in the NYSE Listed Company Manual, or the NYSE Standards. For example, the NYSE Standards require U.S. domestic issuers to have a nominating/corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors. We are not subject to this requirement, and we do not intend to establish a nominating/corporate governance committee. We believe that the composition of our board and its committees and their respective duties and responsibilities are otherwise generally responsive to the relevant NYSE Standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. However, the charters for our audit and compensation committees may not address all aspects of the NYSE Standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. For example, the NYSE Standards require compensation committees of U.S. domestic issuers to produce a compensation committee report annually and include such report in their annual proxy statements or annual reports on Form 10-K. We are not subject to this requirement, and we have not addressed this in our compensation committee charter. The NYSE Standards require shareholder approval for certain matters, such as requiring that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity compensation plans and material revisions to those plans. We intend to comply with the requirements of Cayman Islands law in determining whether shareholder approval is required. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders. Based on the nature of our business and the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, and although it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between us and our affiliated consolidated entities will be treated for purposes of the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2011, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If we are a PFIC, United States Holders, as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences,” of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to increased tax liabilities under United States federal income tax laws and regulations and will be subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value (determined on a quarterly average) in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Consequences — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2012 or in future taxable year. As the determination of PFIC status is based on an annual determination that cannot be made until the close of a taxable year, our U.S. counsel expresses no opinion with respect to our PFIC status. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings in relation to any such offerings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary may not make the rights available to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Our results of operations may fluctuate, which makes our financial results difficult to forecast and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual net revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our quarterly and annual net revenues and gross margins may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: · expansion and related costs in a given period; 26 Table of Contents · seasonality associated with the academic calendar with decreased net revenues specifically during Chinese New Year and over the summer; · our ability to reduce our costs as a percentage of our net revenues; · our ability to attract and retain qualified service professionals; and · increased competition. Our ADSs could be subject to significant price volatility should our earnings fail to meet the expectations of the investment community. Any of these events could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: · to recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or · to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. 27 Table of Contents You will have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct our operations primarily in China. A substantial majority of our assets are located outside the United States and most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company. This may make it more difficult for you to assess the value of any consideration you may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give you additional consideration if you believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as us have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our amended and restated articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Your ability to protect your rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a U.S. federal court may be limited to direct shareholder lawsuits. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. The depositary of our ADSs will, except in limited circumstances, grant to us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not instruct the depositary how to vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests and the ability of our shareholders as a group to influence the management of our company. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not instruct the depositary how to vote, unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; 28 Table of Contents · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for holders of ADSs to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we think or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body or under any provision of the deposit agreement We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not nationals or residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 