Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are those risk factors that management believes are most significant to our business and the industry in which we operate. As such, these risk factors do not include risks that affect business generally. If any of the events described below were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. In the following discussion, we reference the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the 2012 Term Loans, the ABL Facility and the 2018 Notes, each of which is defined and further discussed under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources." Competition from other steel or plastic container manufacturers could significantly impact our profitability, as could an election by our customers to self-manufacture their steel or plastic container requirements. The container industries in which we do business are highly competitive and some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing or other resources than we do. The principal methods of competition in our industry include price, manufacturing capacity, proximity to customers, manufacturing flexibility and quality. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to any of these factors. Competition could force us to reduce our prices or could otherwise result in a loss of market share for our products. In addition, some manufacturers of products that are packaged in steel or plastic containers produce their own steel or plastic containers. The election by some of our existing customers, or potential future customers, to manufacture their steel or plastic containers in-house could significantly impact our profitability. Our customer contracts generally allow our customers to change, and, in some cases, terminate their contracts on short notice. A significant part of our fiscal 2013 sales were made to customers with whom we have contractual relationships. Many of these contracts, most of which are with our larger customers, are requirements contracts under which we supply a percentage of a customer’s requirements over a period of time, without any specific commitment by the customer to purchase a particular unit volume. As such, we are not guaranteed any minimum level of net sales under many of our contracts and many of our customers, including some of our largest customers, are under no obligation to continue to purchase products from us. Moreover, if a customer’s requirements for our products exceed our ability to supply that customer, as has occurred from time to time, we may have a short-term or long-term inability to supply that customer from our own manufacturing facilities and may be required to purchase containers from third parties or take other proactive steps in order to fill that customer’s order. Our inability to supply a customer’s specific requirements from our manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our relationship with that customer or increase our operating costs. In addition, many of our requirements contracts with our customers provide that the customer may receive competitive proposals for all or a portion of the products we furnish to the customer under the contract. We generally have the right to retain the customer’s business subject to the terms of the competitive proposal. If we match a competitive proposal, it may result in 9Table of Contentsreduced sales prices for the products that are the subject of the competitive proposal. If we choose not to match a competitive proposal, we may lose the sales that were the subject of the competitive proposal. Some of our customers do not have contracts with us and are not contractually obligated to purchase products from us. Our repeat business with respect to these customers largely depends on these customers’ satisfaction with our products. At any time these customers can stop purchasing our products and cease doing business with us. We cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. The loss of a key customer could have a significant negative impact on our sales and profitability. In fiscal 2013, approximately 33.0% of our consolidated net sales were to our top 10 customers. Sales to our largest customer, The Sherwin-Williams Company, accounted for approximately 13.0% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2013. The loss of, or major reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could create excess capacity within our manufacturing facilities and could result in the erosion of our gross margins and our market share position. An increase in the use of alternative packaging as a substitute for the steel and plastic containers we sell could adversely affect our profitability. Our steel and plastic containers are used by our customers to package a diverse range of end-use products. A variety of substitute products are available to package these end-use products, including steel and plastics, and to a lesser extent, composites and flexible packaging containers. From time to time, our customers, including some of our larger customers, have used such alternative methods to package their products. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of any such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our employees, including our officers. Increases in the price of our raw materials or energy supply or interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials could cause our production costs to increase, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively and erode our margins. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our operations, including steel, plastic resin, energy, various inks and coatings. We purchase all required raw materials from outside sources and consolidate our steel and resin purchases among a select group of suppliers in an effort to leverage purchasing power. As a result, our purchases of both steel and resin are concentrated with a few suppliers and any interruptions in their supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. In addition, the availability and prices of our raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to new laws or regulations. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be subject to shortages in supply, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers (including by reason of labor strikes, work stoppages or severe weather at our suppliers’ plants), our inability to leverage our purchasing power as successfully as we have in the past, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Historically, we have generally been able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the price of steel and plastic resin, but we may not be able to do so in the future. We have generally not been able to pass on to our customers any price increases of the other raw materials we utilize in our business. To the extent we are not able to leverage our purchasing power as successfully as we have in the past, we are not able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the prices of raw materials or we experience any interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials, our operating costs could materially increase. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to our energy costs such as natural gas and electricity. Our revenues or operating costs could be adversely affected by product liability or product recall costs involving our products or products of our customers. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property, based, for example, on alleged product defect. We do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The outcome of pending and future litigation related to the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and/or cash flows. Several leading paint manufacturers are defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits concerning exposure of children to lead-based paint applied thirty or more years ago, including litigation brought by state and local governments alleging that lead pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance requiring, among other types of relief, abatement. This or similar product liability litigation could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of these paint manufacturers, which include several of our paint container customers and our largest customer, The Sherwin-Williams Company. To the extent our orders decrease or we are 10Table of Contentsunable to collect receivables from customers due to the effects of product liability litigation on our customers, including the lead-based paint litigation referred to above, our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and/or cash flows could be unfavorably affected. In addition, one of our subsidiaries, Armstrong Containers, Inc. (“Armstrong”), has been named as one of several defendants in several lead-related personal injury cases based upon allegations relating to its alleged corporate predecessor’s products that predated our ownership of Armstrong. The allegations in these cases are similar to those against leading paint manufacturers described above. The plaintiffs in the personal injury cases seek unspecified monetary damages in excess of the statutory minimum for personal injuries due to alleged exposure to lead paint, as well as punitive damages. In the future, there could be additional lead pigment/lead-based paint litigation cases filed against Armstrong (or to which Armstrong could be added as an additional defendant) that assert similar or different claims and seek similar or different types of damages or relief. Litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties. Adverse court rulings, determinations of liability, changes in legislation and administrative regulations, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment/lead-based paint litigation against Armstrong and affect the number and impact the nature of future claims and proceedings. We can neither predict the outcome of existing or future cases that name Armstrong as a defendant due to the uncertainties involved nor can we reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to these matters. We have, therefore, not reserved any amounts in respect of potential payments of damages. Any potential liability determined to be attributable to Armstrong arising out of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of this litigation, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Increased consolidation in our end markets may result in the loss of customers, increased exposure to business risks of larger customers and increased pricing pressure. In several of our end markets, such as paint and related products, there has been increased consolidation through mergers and acquisitions in recent years, and this trend may continue. We may lose customers if they are not the surviving entity in future mergers and fewer acquisitions. In addition, our results of operations would be increasingly sensitive to changes in the business of customers that represent a larger portion of our sales or to any deterioration of these customers’ financial condition. Fewer, larger customers due to industry consolidation may also exert pressure on us with respect to pricing and payment terms or require us to make changes to our facilities or operations, potentially adversely impacting our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The availability and pricing of steel and resin could be significantly affected by consolidation of key suppliers. The steel and resin industries have both experienced consolidation in recent years and further consolidations could result in a decrease in the number of our major suppliers or a decrease in the number of alternative supply sources available to us. In this case, it would be more likely that termination of one or more of our relationships with major suppliers would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as we require a variety of steel raw materials to manufacture our general line metal container products. Consolidation could also result in price increases or unfavorable changes in the payment terms for the raw materials that we purchase. If we were unable to pass the impact of such changes on to our customers, these changes due to supplier consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Decreased sales volume in our end markets due to current economic conditions has impacted our net sales. Despite long-term growth trends in the end markets for our products, we cannot assure you that the end markets for our products will resume growth at historic rates. In addition, the slowdown in the housing market that began in 2007 and spread to the larger economy has resulted in a decline in sales volume in our end markets. Our revenues are correlated to the performance of our end markets, especially the home improvement and repair sector, which has experienced severe contraction in recent years. Decreased demand in our end markets has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as customers have reduced their purchases of our products. Continued contraction in the end markets for our products may also require us to reduce prices or make changes to our operations, such as closing plants or restructuring, and we can give you no assurance that such actions would be successful in improving our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. A widespread introduction of alternative packaging by our customers or by other companies as a substitute for steel or plastic containers could significantly reduce our sales. More generally, a decrease in the costs of substitute products, improvements in the performance characteristics of substitute products or the successful development or introduction of new substitute products could significantly reduce our customers’ orders and our profitability. Labor disruptions with that portion of our workforce which is unionized could decrease our profitability. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 22.0% of our hourly employees worked under seven separate collective bargaining 11Table of Contentsagreements. One of the seven collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 9% of the unionized workforce, will become amendable prior to January 1, 2015. When these agreements become amendable, we may not be able to negotiate the agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements. In particular, a labor dispute with either of the major unions representing employees in Cincinnati, Ohio could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce aerosol containers and could result in a deterioration of that business. Our business may be subject to significant environmental, health and safety costs. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety laws, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the handling, disposal and/or emission or discharge of regulated substances and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from the release of regulated materials. In addition, in the course of our operations, we use, store and dispose of hazardous substances. Some of our current and former facilities are currently involved in environmental investigations, remediations and other claims resulting from releases of hazardous substances or the presence of other regulated materials. For example, in fiscal 2008, we received a letter from the EPA stating that corrective action was required at our Homerville, Georgia facility to address certain waste handling and disposal matters. In fiscal 2007, we received a letter from the EPA stating an investigation was required at our Cincinnati, Ohio facility to determine if remedial action was necessary to respond to prior releases of hazardous substances at the site. The releases referenced by the EPA occurred prior to our ownership of the site. We are working with the EPA to address its concerns and have notified the former owner of the site, whom we believe has indemnity obligations to us with respect to the EPA’s claim. In addition, in fiscal 2005, we joined a PRP group related to investigation and potential remediation at a waste disposal site in Douglas, Georgia. Our status as a PRP was based on documents indicating that waste materials were transported to the site from our Homerville, Georgia facility prior to our acquisition of the facility in 1989. At our Dayton, New Jersey facility, we are investigating potential polychlorinated biphenyl impacts in the soil. Remediation options include capping and/or removal of the impacted soils. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial usage for which investigation and remediation obligations could arise in the future and which could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise materially affect the way we operate our business. For further discussion of existing environmental issues relating to us, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Matters.” Current and pending legislation could affect our ability to obtain and implement certain raw materials in our products or meet the demands of our customers. A number of state, federal and non-U.S. legislative authorities have passed or are contemplating the passage of certain legal requirements related to certain of the raw materials in our products, including minimum post-consumer recycled content in certain packaging, minimum recycling rates with respect to packaging containing certain materials such as HDPE and mandatory “source” reductions which may affect the structure and composition of our packaging. Such legislation could impede our ability to obtain or the cost-effectiveness of implementing certain raw materials in the manufacture of our products. In addition, to the extent such regulations prevent or otherwise materially affect our ability to obtain or implement certain packaging products or materials used to satisfy the orders of our customers, our relationships with our customers could in turn be adversely affected. We may not succeed in our strategy of pursuing or integrating selective acquisitions. Part of our business strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, other assets and other business combinations. However, we may not be able to locate or acquire suitable acquisition candidates at attractive cash flow multiples consistent with our strategy, and we may not be able to fund future acquisitions because of limitations relating to our indebtedness or otherwise. Additionally, any such acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. We may not consummate some acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to closing transactions. If such transactions are not completed for any reason, many costs relating to such transactions may be payable by us. If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of the acquired businesses, products or other assets into our company may also be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products and assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, cost-savings or growth opportunities. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: •integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on producing and delivering consistent, high quality products; •coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; •distracting employees from operations; •retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and •managing inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of our Company. 12Table of ContentsFurthermore, these acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or geographic markets, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business, other assets or arrangements. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from acquisitions or other arrangements after we have expended resources on them. Our operational improvements plan may not be effective and is based on assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Our operational improvements strategy includes goals such as the implementation of best practices, the optimization and consolidation of manufacturing lines and a reduction in our cost of quality. While we have and will continue to implement these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realize the estimated benefits of these plans. Moreover, our continued implementation of these plans may disrupt our operations and performance. Additionally, our estimated cost savings for these plans are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate and, as a result, there can be no assurance that we will realize these cost savings. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our business is seasonal, reflecting a general pattern of lower sales and earnings in the metal and plastic packaging industry during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. These seasonal patterns cause our quarterly operating results and working capital requirements to fluctuate. Because of such seasonality, financial results for a particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the entire year. For example, from October 1 to December 31 of 2013 and 2012 our net sales were approximately 22% and 20%, respectively, of total annual net sales. Furthermore, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience variability in our results of operations on a quarterly basis due to fluctuations in raw material prices and our ability to pass these changes on to our customers. If the economy and the end-markets for our products do not improve, we may experience volatility in our results of operations and cash flows on a quarterly basis due to non-payment by our customers. Future economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets experienced extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Among other risks we face, the tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, including, if necessary, to fund a strategic acquisition. In addition, we may maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. Based on the past instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. We expect cash on hand, cash provided by operations and short-term borrowings available under the ABL Facility to provide sufficient working capital to operate our business, to make expected capital expenditures and to meet foreseeable liquidity requirements, including debt service on our long-term debt, in the next 12 months. We expect to use cash provided by operations in excess of amounts needed for capital expenditures and required debt repayments to reduce our debt, to fund potential acquisitions or for other general corporate purposes. However, we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs in the long term. Turmoil in the capital and credit markets and the general economic downturn could adversely impact the availability, terms and/or pricing of financing if we need to raise additional liquidity. We would experience liquidity problems if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing as our debt becomes due, or we otherwise need additional liquidity. Adverse economic conditions, increased competition or other unfavorable events also could affect our liquidity. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we had $723.6 million of indebtedness outstanding subject to variable interest rates. A 1% increase in variable interest rates would increase our annual cash interest by $7.2 million. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations of the Canadian dollar. In fiscal 2013, approximately 14.0% of our net sales were in Canadian dollars. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from our Canadian operations and the value of the net assets of our Canadian operations 13Table of Contentswhen reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our Canadian operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Translation gains and losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholder's equity. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that, if impaired in the future, would result in lower reported net income and a reduction in our net assets. Impairment of these assets would require us to write them down and reduce net income in the period of such write down. At December 31, 2013, the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $700.6 million. We are required to evaluate goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment, or when circumstances indicate a potential impairment. If we determine that either goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets is impaired, we would be required to write-off all or a portion of such assets. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from making payments on our debt obligations. As a result of the Platinum Merger and Ropak Acquisition, we have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $945.5 million of total outstanding indebtedness (excluding capital lease obligations of approximately $8.4 million) and a $200.0 million ABL Facility (subject to borrowing base limitations and further reduced by outstanding standby letters of credit, which were $11.2 million at December 31, 2013). Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; •increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, raw materials, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; •expose us to interest rate fluctuations due to variable rate debt under the ABL Facility; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt (including scheduled repayments on the 2012 Term Loans), including making cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to make payments on its debt obligations, including BWAY Parent’s PIK Notes due 2017 (the “2017 PIK Notes”) thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; •limit our ability to refinance indebtedness or increase the associated costs; •require us to sell assets to reduce debt or influence our decision about whether to do so; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate or prevent us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Despite substantial levels of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further intensify the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, including senior debt. The indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities do not fully prohibit us and our subsidiaries from doing so. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities provide for incremental term loan borrowings if certain conditions are met, including meeting a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio test. Likewise, the ABL Facility may also be increased. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify and we may not be able to meet all our respective debt obligations. In addition, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes does not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness but which could present similar risks. The indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain cross default or cross acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under those instruments to become immediately due and payable because of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. The indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain numerous covenants and the ABL Facility requires us, if availability falls below a certain 14Table of Contentsthreshold, to meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the relevant credit agreement). Our failure to comply with the obligations contained in these agreements or other instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under other instruments (together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees) becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds may not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell our assets and otherwise curtail our operations in order to pay our creditors. These alternative measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows, which could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could restrict our operating flexibility. The indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The indenture governing the 2018 Notes contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to: •incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions, including distributions to BWAY Parent to make payments in respect of its indebtedness; •make other restricted payments or investments; •create liens on assets; •create restrictions on payment of dividends or other amounts by us to our restricted subsidiaries; •transfer or sell assets; •engage in mergers or consolidations; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities restrict, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or other payments on capital stock; •guarantee other obligations; •grant liens on assets; •make loans, acquisitions or other investments; •dispose of assets; •make optional payments or modify certain debt instruments; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •amend organizational documents; •engage in mergers or consolidations; •enter into arrangements that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; •change the nature of the business conducted by us; and •designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, under the ABL Facility if availability falls below a certain threshold, we are required to comply with a “minimum fixed charge coverage ratio” (as defined in the relevant credit agreement). Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities may be affected by economic conditions and by financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing and sales volume of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the 2018 Notes or the Senior Secured Credit Facilities that would permit the holders or applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable immediately, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any applicable redemption premium. In that case, we may be unable to borrow under new senior secured credit facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the 2018 Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. This could have serious consequences to our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. 15Table of ContentsIf we do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may be unable to service all of our indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, to repay the 2012 Term Loans when they mature in 2017 or the 2018 Notes when they mature in 2018, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets or operations, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seeking to raise additional capital. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more restrictive covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Our ability to implement successfully any such alternative financing plans will be dependent on a range of factors, including general economic conditions, the level of activity in mergers and acquisitions and capital markets generally and the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities are secured by liens on substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets, and any successor credit facilities are likely to be secured on a similar basis. As such, our ability to seek additional financing could be impaired as a result of such security interests and the agreements governing such security interests. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to raise funds necessary to finance the change of control repurchase offers required by the indenture governing BWAY Parent’s 2017 PIK Notes and BOE Intermediate BOE PIK Notes. Under the indentures governing the 2017 PIK Notes and BOE Intermediate's 9.00%/9.75% senior PIK Toggle Notes due 2017 (the "BOE PIK Note"), if we experience specific kinds of change of control, BWAY Parent must offer to repurchase the 2017 PIK Notes and BOE Intermediate must offer to repurchase the 2017 PIK Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the applicable notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase and BOE Intermediate may be unable to repay all indebtedness indenture BOE PIK Notes. The occurrence of specified events that would constitute a change of control under the 2017 PIK Notes and the BOE PIK Notes indentures would also constitute a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder and would require us to offer to repurchase the 2018 Notes under the 2018 Notes indenture. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities may limit or prohibit the purchase of the 2017 PIK Notes and the BOE PIK Notes by us in the event of a change of control, unless and until the indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the 2018 Notes is repaid in full. As a result, following a change of control event, BWAY Parent may not be able to repurchase the 2017 PIK Notes and BOE Intermediate may not be able to repurchase the BOE PIK Notes unless all indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is first repaid and any other indebtedness that contains similar provisions is repaid, or BWAY Parent and BOE Intermediate may obtain a waiver from the holders of such indebtedness to provide it with sufficient cash to repurchase the 2017 PIK Notes and the BOE PIK Notes. Any future debt agreements that we enter into may contain similar provisions. We may not be able to obtain such a waiver, in which case BWAY Parent may be unable to repay all indebtedness under the 2017 PIK Notes and BOE Intermediate may be unable to repay all indebtness under the BOE PIK Notes. 