Item 1A. Risk Factors.Prospective investors in the Company’s common stock should carefully consider the following risk factors.◦Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets, a general economic downturn and a tepid economic recovery, both nationally and in our primary markets in Connecticut and Rhode Island. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions and have not fully recovered, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we may face the following risks:•economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate; •market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; •the processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; •the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and •we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. 37Table of ContentsThese conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. ◦The Company’s cost of operations is high relative to its assets. The Company’s failure to maintain or reduce its operating expenses could hurt its profits. Our noninterest expenses totaled $37.7 million and $30.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We continue to analyze our expenses and achieve efficiencies where available. Although we strive to generate increases in both net interest income and noninterest income, our efficiency ratio remains high as a result of operating expenses. Our efficiency ratio totaled 96.10% and 88.19% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our noninterest expenses and resulting efficiency ratio for 2013 was negatively impacted by $2.6 million in costs associated with the Newport acquisition during 2013. Failure to control or maintain our expenses could hurt future profits.◦The Bank’s level of nonperforming loans and classified assets may require the Bank to increase the provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional losses in the future. Further, the allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the Bank’s loan portfolio. For 2013, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.3 million compared to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 million in 2012. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $790,000 in 2013 compared to net loan charge-offs of $1.5 million in 2012. Our nonperforming assets and troubled debt restructurings decreased to $11.6 million, or 0.86% of total assets, at December 31, 2013 from $12.8 million, or 1.34% of total assets, at December 31, 2012. Additionally, at December 31, 2013, loans that were classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $49.1 million, representing 4.66% of total loans, including nonperforming loans of $7.0 million, representing 0.66% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market weakens, more of our classified loans may become nonperforming and we could experience loan losses or be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management’s best estimate of known losses in the portfolio based upon management’s evaluation of the portfolio’s collectibility as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses totaled $6.9 million, which represented 0.66% of total loans and 98.90% of nonperforming loans. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge-off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions 38Table of Contentsfor loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.◦The Bank’s commercial lending exposes us to lending risks. At December 31, 2013, $540.0 million, or 51.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. We intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike one- to four-family real estate loans or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value.◦The Bank’s emphasis on residential mortgage loans and home equity loans exposes it to lending risks, especially due to declining real estate values. At December 31, 2013, $449.8 million, or 42.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and $44.3 million, or 4.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. Since the recession and through the period of slow recovery thereafter, the housing market has slowed and real estate values in our market areas have declined. This could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.◦The Company’s investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns, material losses or other-than-temporary impairment losses. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an issuer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.Our investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur.Because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income, and we could recognize investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.Additionally, we review our securities portfolio at each quarter-end to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. We are required to write-down the value of that security through a charge to earnings if we conclude that the decline is other-than-temporary. In the case of debt securities, we are required to charge to earnings any decreases in value that are credit-related. As of December 31, 2013, the amortized cost and the fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $171.2 million and $170.2 million, respectively. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in a charge to earnings to write-down these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flows, tangible capital or liquidity. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 39Table of Contents2012, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses on certain debt securities related to credit-related factors totaling $8,000 and $123,000, respectively.◦Regulatory reform may have a material impact on the Company's operations. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was passed, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:•changes to regulatory capital requirements; •creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products); •potential limitations on federal preemption; •changes to deposit insurance assessments; •regulation of debit interchange fees we earn; •changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and •changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our common stock. ◦Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce the Company’s profitability and affect the value of its assets.We are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage- backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their 40Table of Contentshomes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities, our profitability could be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates.◦Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt its profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2013, we held approximately 1.57% of the deposits in Hartford, Middlesex, New London, Tolland and Windham counties in Connecticut, which represented the 13th largest market share of deposits out of the 38 financial institutions in these counties. As of the same date, Newport Federal Savings Bank held approximately 5.88% of the deposits in Newport and Washington counties in Rhode Island, which represented the 5th largest tmarket share of deposits out of the 11 financial institutions in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.◦New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework. These rules substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in over time beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. Beginning in 2015, our minimum capital requirements will be (i) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (common Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the common Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required common Tier 1 equity ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5% and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.◦The Company is subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits and FHLB advances are our primary sources of funding. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to renew FHLB advances, an inability to obtain alternative funding to core deposits or FHLB advances, or a 41Table of Contentssubstantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition.◦If the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded in connection with the Company’s acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. Applicable accounting standards require that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under this method, if the purchase price of an acquired entity exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2013, we had $11.2 million of goodwill and $8.4 million of core deposit intangible on our balance sheet. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant such evaluation. Our annual review of our goodwill occurs in November. Write-downs of the amount of impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. No impairment related to goodwill or core deposit intangibles was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012. Future evaluations may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.◦The Company is subject to security and operational risks relating to use of its technology that could damage its reputation and business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations.◦We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “PATRIOT Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. ◦We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, 42Table of Contentscould interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us.Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore, on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Bank can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties.Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and 43Table of Contentsto financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.