Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 20-F, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the possible events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties below are those known to us and that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Related to our Business We cannot easily reduce our operating expenses in the short term, which could have a material adverse effect on our business in the event of a slowdown in demand for our services or a decrease in revenue for any reason. Our operating expenses primarily consist of personnel, power and property costs. Personnel and property costs cannot be easily reduced in the short term. Therefore, we are unlikely to be able to reduce significantly our expenses in response to a slowdown in demand for our services or any decrease in revenue. The terms of our leases with landlords for facilities that serve as data centers are typically for 10 to 15 years (excluding our extension options) and do not provide us with an early termination right, while our colocation contracts with customers are initially typically for only three to five years. As at December 31, 2011, 42% of our Monthly Recurring Revenue was generated by contracts with terms of one year or less remaining. Our personnel costs are fixed due to our contracts with our employees having set notice periods and local law limitations in relation to the termination of employment contracts. In respect of our power costs, there is a minimum level of power required to keep our data centers running irrespective of the number of customers using them so our power costs may exceed the amount of revenue derived from power. We could have higher than expected levels of unused capacity in our data centers if, among other things: • our existing customers contracts are not renewed and such customers are not replaced by new customers; • internet and telecommunications equipment becomes smaller and more compact in the future; • there is an unexpected slowdown in demand for our services; or • we are unable to terminate or amend our leases when we have underutilized space at a data center. If we have higher than expected levels of unused space at a data center at any given time, we may be required to operate a data center at a loss for a period of time. If we have higher than expected levels of unused capacity in our data centers and we are unable to reduce our expenses accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our inability to utilize the capacity of newly planned data centers and data center expansions in line with our business plan would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have made significant investments in our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in order to expand our data center footprint and total Equipped Space as we have grown our business. In the year ended December 31, 2011 we invested € 162.0 million in property, plant and equipment (€154.6 million) and intangible assets (€7.4 million). In the year ended December 31, 2010, we invested €100.4 million in property, plant and equipment (€98.2 million) and intangible assets (€2.2 million). Investments in property, plant and equipment includes expansion, upgrade, maintenance and general administrative IT equipment. Investments in intangibles assets include power grid rights and software development. We expect to continue to invest as we expand our data center footprint and increase our Equipped Space based on demand in our target markets. Our total annual investment in property, plant and equipment includes maintenance and replacement capital expenditures. Although in any one year the amount of maintenance and replacement capital expenditures may vary, we expect that long term such expenses will be between 4% and 6% of total revenue. Except for two Paris datacenters (PAR3 and PAR5), acquired in December 2011, and our Amsterdam datacenter premises (AMS6), acquired in February 2012, we typically lease space for a data center and begin building it out before we have entered into agreements with customers to cover the capacity of the data center. In some cases, we enter into lease agreements for data centers or begin expansions at our existing data centers without any pre-existing customer commitments to use the additional space that will be created. If we open a new data center or complete an expansion at an existing data center, we will be required to pay substantial up-front and ongoing costs associated with that data center, including leasehold improvements, basic overhead costs and rental payments regardless of whether or not we have any agreements with customers to fill the space. 11 Table of Contents As a result of our expansion plans, we will incur capital expenditures, and as a result, an increase in other operating expenses, which will negatively impact our cash flow, and depreciation that together will negatively impact our profitability unless and until these new and expanded data centers generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and related capital expenditures. We incurred substantial losses during the period of 2001 to 2003 as a result of high churn and other factors. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain or increase our profitability if our planned expansion is not successful or if there is not sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to expand our existing data centers or locate and secure suitable sites for additional data centers on commercially acceptable terms our ability to grow our business may be limited. Our ability to meet the growing needs of our existing customers and to attract new customers depends on our ability to add capacity by expanding existing data centers or by locating and securing suitable sites for additional data centers that meet our specifications, such as proximity to numerous network service providers, access to a significant supply of electrical power and the ability to sustain heavy floor loading. We have reached high utilization levels at some of our data centers and therefore any increase in these locations would need to be accomplished through the lease of additional property that satisfies our requirements. Property meeting our specifications may be scarce in our target markets. If we are unable to identify and enter into leases on commercially acceptable terms on a timely basis for any reason including due to competition from other companies seeking similar sites who may have greater financial resources than us, or are unable to expand our space in our current data centers, our rate of growth may be substantially impaired. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses and obligations to service our debt, will be a drain on our cash flow and may decrease our cash balances. The capital markets in the recent past have been and may again become limited for external financing opportunities. Additional debt or equity financing, especially in the current credit-constrained climate, may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Our inability to obtain needed debt and/or equity financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to prioritize projects or curtail capital expenditures which could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to renew or maintain real estate leases for our existing data centers on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business. Except for two Paris datacenters (PAR3 and PAR5), acquired in December 2011, and the Amsterdam datacenter premises (AMS6), acquired in February 2012, we do not own the property on which our data centers are located and instead lease the majority of our data center space. We generally enter leases for initial periods of 10 to 15 years (excluding renewal options). The majority of our leases are subject to an annual inflation-linked increase in rent and, on renewal (or earlier in some cases), the rent we pay may be reset to the current market rate. There is, therefore, a risk that there will be significant rent increases when the rent is reviewed. Our leases in France, Ireland, Belgium and the United Kingdom do not contain contractual options to renew or extend those leases, and we have exhausted or may in the future exhaust such options in other leases. With respect to our leases in France, certain landlords may terminate our leases following the expiration of the original lease period (being 12 years from the commencement date), and the other leases in France may be terminated by the landlords at the end of each three year period upon giving six months prior notice in the event the landlord wishes to carry out construction works to the building. The non-renewal of leases for our existing data center locations, or the renewal of such leases on less favorable terms, is a potentially significant risk to our ongoing operations. We would incur significant costs if we were forced to vacate one of our data centers due to the high costs of relocating our own and our customers’ equipment, installing the necessary infrastructure in a new data center and, as required by most of our leases, reinstating the vacated data center to its original state. In addition, if we were forced to vacate a data center, we could lose customers that chose our services based on location. If we fail to renew any of our leases, or the renewal of any of our leases is on less favorable terms and we fail to increase revenues sufficiently to offset the higher rental costs, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our leases may obligate us to make payments beyond our use of the property. Our leases generally do not give us the right to terminate without penalty. Accordingly, we may incur costs under leases of data center space that is not or no longer is Revenue Generating Space. Some of our leases do not give us the right to sublet, and even if we have that right we may not be able to sublet the space on favorable terms or at all. We have incurred moderate costs in relation to such onerous lease contracts in recent years. We may experience unforeseen delays and expenses when fitting out and upgrading data centers, and the costs could be greater than anticipated. As we attempt to grow our business, substantial management effort and financial resources are employed by us in fitting out new, and upgrading existing, data centers. In addition, we periodically upgrade and replace certain equipment at our data centers. We may experience unforeseen delays and expenses in connection with a particular client project or data center build-out. In addition, unexpected technological changes could affect customer requirements and we may not have built such requirements into our data centers and may not have budgeted for the financial resources necessary to build out or redesign the space to meet such new requirements. Furthermore, the redesign of existing space is difficult to implement in practice as it normally requires moving existing customers. Although we have budgeted for expected build-out and equipment expenses, additional expenses in the event of unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, unexpected technological changes and increases in the price of equipment may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will complete the build-out of new data centers or expansions of existing data centers within the proposed timeframe and cost parameters or at all. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our market is highly competitive. Most companies operate their own data centers and in many cases continue to invest in data center capacity, although there is a trend towards outsourcing. We compete against other carrier-neutral colocation data center service providers, such as Equinix, Telecity and Telehouse. We also compete with other types of data centers, including carrier-operated colocation, wholesale and IT outsourcers and managed services provider data centers. The cost, operational risk and inconvenience involved in relocating a customer’s networking and computing equipment to another data center are significant and have the effect of protecting a competitor’s data center from significant levels of customer churn. Further, the growth of the European data center market has encouraged new, larger companies to consider entering the market, in particular those from the United States who are active in this sector. This growth and other factors have also led to increasing alliances and consolidation. Many of these companies may have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors may be willing to, and due to greater financial resources, may be better able to adopt aggressive pricing policies, including the provision of discounted data center services as an encouragement for customers to utilize their other services. Certain of our competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communications services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to potential customers than obtaining space in our data centers. 13 Table of Contents While not currently a direct competitive threat to us, wholesale providers of data center space might change their business plan to compete with us directly or open new data centers, thus making large amounts of capacity available at a single point in time and facilitating the entry into the market or expansion of our direct competitors. Wholesale providers of data center space may compete with us for the acquisition of new sites, thereby increasing the average rental prices for suitable sites. In addition, corporations that have already invested substantial resources in in-house data center operations may be reluctant to outsource these services to a third party, or may choose to acquire space within a wholesale provider’s data center, which would allow them to manage the equipment themselves. If existing customers were to conclude that they could provide the same service in-house at a lower cost, with greater reliability, with increased security or for other reasons, they might move such services in-house and we would lose customers and business. We may also see increased competition for data center space and customers from wholesale data center providers, such as large real estate companies. Rather than leasing available space to large single tenants, real estate companies, including certain of our landlords, may decide to convert the space instead to smaller square foot units designed for multi-tenant colocation use. In addition to the risk of losing customers to wholesale data center providers, this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. As a result of such competition, we could suffer from downward pricing pressure and the loss of customers (and potential customers), which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our services may have a long sales cycle that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A customer’s decision to take space in one of our data centers typically involves a significant commitment of resources by us and by potential customers, who often require internal approvals. In addition, some customers will be reluctant to commit to locating in our data centers until they are confident that the data center has adequate available carrier connections and network density. As a result, we may have a long sales cycle lasting anywhere from three months for smaller customers to periods in excess of one year for some of our larger customers. Furthermore, we may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not result in revenue. The slowdown in global economies and their delayed recovery may further impact this long sales cycle by making it extremely difficult for customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This could cause customers to slow spending, or delay decision-making, on our services, which would delay and lengthen our sales cycle. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on the adequate supply of electrical power and could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or increases in the cost of power. The operation of each of our data centers requires an extremely large amount of power and we are among the largest power consumers in certain cities in which we operate data centers. We cannot be certain that there will be adequate power in all of the locations in which we operate, or intend to open additional data centers. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime caused by power outages by using back-up generators and uninterrupted power supply systems; however, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. We also cannot guarantee that the generators will always provide sufficient power or restore power in time to avoid loss of or damage to our customers’ and our equipment. Any loss of services or damage to equipment resulting from a temporary loss of or reduction in power at any of our data centers could harm our customers, reduce customers’ confidence in our services, impair our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, and result in us incurring financial obligations to our customers as they might be eligible for service credits pursuant to their service level agreements with us. Our customers may also seek damages from us. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we are susceptible to fluctuations in power costs in all of the locations in which we operate. Clients have two options with respect to power usage: either (i) to pay for power usage in “plugs” in advance (typically included in the total cabinet price), which are contractually defined amounts of power per month, for which the customer must pay in full, regardless of how much power is actually used; or (ii) to pay for their actual power usage in arrears on a metered basis. While we are contractually able to recover power cost increases from our customers, some portion of the increased costs may not be recovered or recovered in a delayed fashion based on commercial reasons and as a result, may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have not experienced any power outages that have had a material impact on our financial condition in the past, power outages or increases in the cost of power to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A general lack of electrical power resources sufficient to meet our customers’ demands may impair our ability to utilize fully the available space at our existing data centers or our plans to open new data centers. In each of our markets, we rely on third parties to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. Power and cooling requirements are generally growing on a per customer basis. Some of our customers are increasing and may continue to increase their use of high-density electrical power equipment, such as blade servers, which can significantly increase the demand for power per customer and cooling requirements for our data centers. Future demand for electrical power and cooling may exceed the designed electrical power and cooling infrastructure in our data centers. As the electrical power infrastructure is typically one of the most important limiting factors in our data centers, our ability to utilize available space fully may be limited. This, as well as any inability to secure sufficient power resources from third-party providers, could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given data center and limit our ability to grow our business. The ability to increase the power capacity or power infrastructure of a data center, should we decide to, is dependent on several factors including, but not limited to, the local utility’s ability and willingness to provide additional power, the length of time required to provide such power and/or whether it is feasible to upgrade the electrical infrastructure and cooling systems of a data center to deliver additional power to customers. The availability of sufficient power may also pose a risk to the successful development of future data centers. In cities where we intend to open new data centers, we may face delays in obtaining sufficient power to operate our data centers. Our ability to secure adequate power sources will depend on several factors, including whether the local power supply is at or close to its limit, whether new connections for our data center would require the local power company to install a new substation or feeder and whether new connections for our data center would increase the overall risks of blackouts or power outages in a given geographic area. If we are unable to utilize fully the physical space available within our data centers or successfully develop additional data centers or expand existing data centers due to restrictions on available electrical power or cooling, we may be unable to accept new customers or increase the services provided to existing customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our Monthly Recurring Revenue is generated by contracts with terms of one year or less remaining. If such contracts are not renewed, or if their pricing terms are negotiated downwards, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The majority of our initial customer contracts are entered into on a fixed-term basis for periods from three to five years, which, unless terminated in advance, are automatically renewed for subsequent one-year periods. Please see Item 4 “Information on the Company—Customer Contracts.” As at December 31, 2011, 42% of our Monthly Recurring Revenue was generated by contracts with terms of one year or less remaining. Consequently, a large part of our customer base could either terminate their contracts with us at relatively short notice, or seek to re-negotiate the pricing of such contracts downwards, which, if either were to occur, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to use all or part of our net deferred tax assets could cause us to pay taxes at an earlier date and in greater amounts than expected. As at December 31, 2011, we had €37.8 million of recognized and €2.1 million of unrecognized, net deferred tax assets. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient profit in the relevant jurisdictions to utilize these deferred tax assets fully or that the tax loss availability will not expire before we have been able to fully utilize them. In addition, applicable law could change in one or more jurisdictions in which we have deferred tax assets, rendering such assets unusable. Either such event would cause us to pay taxes in greater amounts than would otherwise occur, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a variety of factors, which include: • demand for our services; • competition from other data center operators; • the cost and availability of power; • the introduction of new services by us and/or our competitors; • data center expansion by us and/or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors; • a change in our customer retention rates; • economic conditions affecting the Internet, telecommunications and e-commerce industries; and • changes in general economic conditions. Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues during the past three financial years, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. In addition, a relatively large portion of our expenses cannot be reduced in the short-term, particularly personnel and property costs and part of our power costs, which means that our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior reporting periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. In addition, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this happens, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline significantly. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on third-party suppliers for equipment, technology and other services. We contract with third parties for the supply of equipment (including generators, UPS systems and cabinet equipment) on which we are dependent to operate our business. Poor performance by, or any inability of, our suppliers to provide necessary equipment, products, services and maintenance could have a negative effect on our reputation and harm our business. We depend on the ongoing service of our personnel and senior management team and may not be able to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to maintain and grow our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled employees, including the data center personnel who are integral to the establishment and running of our data centers, as well as sales and marketing personnel who play a large role in attracting and retaining customers. Due to several factors, including the rapid growth of the Internet, there is aggressive competition for experienced data center employees. We compete intensely with other companies to recruit and hire from this limited pool. In addition, the training of new employees requires a large amount of our time and resources. If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to expand our business in line with our strategy, compete for new customers or retain existing customers, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Our future performance also depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team could significantly harm us. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our Company. There can be no assurance that we would be able to locate or employ such personnel on acceptable terms or on a timely basis. Our failure to maintain competitive compensation packages, including equity incentives, may be disruptive to our business. If one or more of our key personnel resigns from our Company to join or form a competitor, the loss of such personnel and any resulting loss of existing or potential customers to any such competitor could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by departed personnel. Disruptions to our physical infrastructure could lead to significant costs, reduce our revenues and harm our business reputation and financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable and secure services. A number of factors may disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers, including: • human error; • power loss; • physical or electronic security breaches; • terrorist acts; • interruptions to the fiber network; • hardware and software defects; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; • improper maintenance by our landlords; and • sabotage and vandalism. Disruptions at one or more of our data centers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage, leading to significant costs and revenue reductions. Please see “—Risks Related to our Industry—Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business.” 17 Table of Contents Substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. We have a significant amount of debt and expect to incur additional debt to support our growth. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately €262.5 million, our stockholders’ equity was €330.6 million and our cash and cash equivalents totaled €142.7 million. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly leveraged; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; or • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our expansion strategy and other general corporate requirements; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, which would also limit our ability to further expand our business; and • make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, such as our €260.0 million 9.50% senior secured notes due 2017. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. These risks could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under our revolving credit facility or incur other new indebtedness, the risks described above would increase. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses. The insurance we maintain covers material damage to property, business interruption and third-party liability. This insurance contains limitations on the total coverage for damage due to catastrophic events, such as flooding or terrorism. In addition, there is an overall cap on our general insurance coverage of €34 million in any one year. There is, therefore, a risk that if one or more data centers were damaged, the total amount of the loss would not be recoverable by us. As we have multiple data centers in close proximity to each other located in Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Paris and Dublin, this increases the chance of us suffering uninsured losses. 18 Table of Contents Also, our insurance policies include customary exclusions, deductibles and other conditions that could limit our ability to recover losses. In addition, some of our policies are subject to limitations involving co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, or if customers consider that there is a significant risk that such an event will occur, this may negatively affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to meet the performance standards under our service level agreements may subject us to liability to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. We have service level agreements with substantially all of our customers in which we provide various guarantees regarding our level of service. Our inability to provide services consistent with these guarantees may lead to large losses for our customers, who consequently may be entitled to service credits for their accounts or to terminate their relationship with us. We have issued service credits to customers in the past due to our failure to meet service level commitments, as was the case in connection with an outage in some cabinets in one of our Paris and one of our Frankfurt data centers in 2011, and we may do so in the future. We cannot be sure that our customers will accept these service credits as compensation in the future. Our failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations or any deficiency in the services we provide to customers could result in a claim against us for substantial damages. Provisions contained in our agreements with customers attempting to limit damages, including provisions to limit liability for damages, may not be enforceable in all instances or may otherwise fail to protect us for liability damages. We could be subject to costs, as well as claims, litigation or other potential liability, in connection with risks associated with the security of our data centers. One of our key service offerings is our high level of physical premises security. Many of our customers entrust their key strategic IT services and applications to us due, in part, to the level of security we offer. A party who is able to breach our security could physically damage our and our customers’ equipment and/or misappropriate either our proprietary information or the information of our customers or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. There can be no assurance that the security of any of our data centers will not be breached or the equipment and information of our customers put at risk. Any security breach could have a serious effect on our reputation and could prevent new customers from choosing our services and lead to customers terminating their contracts early and seeking to recover losses suffered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant additional costs to protect against physical premises security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We face risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our reporting currency for purposes of our financial statements is the euro. However, we also incur revenues and operating costs in non-euro denominated currencies, such as British pounds, Swiss francs, Danish kroner and Swedish krona. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the euro and the non-euro currencies in which we do business will cause us to incur foreign currency translation gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We do not currently engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage the risk of our foreign currency exposure. 19 Table of Contents The slowdown in global economies and their delayed recovery may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The European debt crisis and slowdown and delayed recovery in the global financial markets could continue to have an adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. If the market conditions continue to remain weak or uncertain, some of our customers may have difficulty paying us and we may experience increased churn in our customer base. Our sales cycle could also lengthen as customers slow spending, or delay decision-making, on our services, which could adversely affect our revenue growth. Finally, we could also experience pricing pressure as a result of economic conditions if our competitors lower prices and attempt to lure away our customers. Additionally, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial or strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may include acquisitions of businesses, products, services or technologies that we believe to be complementary. We may pay for future acquisitions by using our existing cash resources (which may limit other potential uses of our cash), incurring additional debt (which may increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements) and/or issuing shares (which may dilute our existing stockholders and have a negative effect on our earnings per share). Acquisitions expose us to several potential risks, including: • the possible disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention by acquisition, transition and integration activities; • our potential inability to successfully pursue or realize some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities associated with an acquisition or investment; • the possibility that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, or businesses in which we invest, or achieve anticipated operating efficiencies or cost savings; • the possibility that announced acquisitions may not be completed, due to failure to satisfy the conditions to closing or for other reasons; • the dilution of our existing stockholders as a result of our issuing stock in transactions; • the possibility of customer dissatisfaction if we are unable to achieve levels of quality and stability on par with past practices; • the possibility that additional capital expenditures may be required or that transaction expenses associated with acquisitions may be higher than anticipated; • the possibility that required financing to fund the requirements of an acquisition may not be available on acceptable terms or at all; • the possibility that we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under antitrust and competition laws on a timely basis or at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing an acquisition, limit our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic benefits of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; • the possible loss or reduction in value of acquired businesses; • the possibility that carriers may find it cost-prohibitive or impractical to bring fiber and networks into a new data center; • the possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with or as a result of an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; and 20 Table of Contents • the possibility of pre-existing undisclosed liabilities, including but not limited to lease or landlord related liability, environmental or asbestos liability, for which insurance coverage may be insufficient or unavailable. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Related to our Industry The European data center industry has suffered from over-capacity in the past, and a substantial increase in the supply of new data center capacity and/or a general decrease in demand for data center services could have an adverse impact on industry pricing and profit margins. Between 2001 and 2004, the European data center industry suffered from overcapacity due to difficult telecommunications and technology market conditions when the value of many new Internet-based companies fell after a period of significant growth. During the period of growth, many customers contracted to use more space than they needed and in the downturn in the market that followed, the number of Internet-related business failures increased significantly, resulting in high levels of customer churn due to the termination or non-renewal of contracts. A substantial increase in the supply of new data center capacity in the European data center market and/or a general decrease in demand, or in the rate of increase in demand, for data center services could have an adverse impact on industry pricing and profit margins. If there is not sufficient customer demand for data center services, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with technological changes, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, our competitive position will suffer. The Internet and telecommunications industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. Accordingly, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to meet the challenge of these changes. Among the most important challenges that we may face are the need to: continue to develop our strategic and technical expertise, influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes, enhance our current services and develop new services that meet changing customer needs. All of these challenges must be met in a timely and cost-effective manner. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, which would allow them to react better or more quickly to changes than we may be able to. We may not effectively meet these challenges as rapidly as our competitors or at all and our failure to do so could harm our business. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. Due to the high volume of important data that passes through data centers, there is a real risk that terrorists seeking to damage financial and technological infrastructure view data centers generally, and those in concentrated areas specifically, as potential targets. These factors may increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we were unable to pass such costs on to our customers. These circumstances may also adversely affect the ability of companies, including ourselves, to raise capital. We may not have adequate property and liability insurance to cover terrorist attacks. In addition, we depend heavily on the physical infrastructure (particularly as it relates to power) that exists in the markets in which we operate. Any damage to such infrastructure, particularly in the major European markets such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London, Madrid and Paris, where we derive a substantial amount of our revenue and which are likely to be more prone to terrorist activities, may materially and adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Our carrier neutral business model depends on the presence of numerous telecommunications carrier networks in our data centers. The presence of diverse telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks in our data centers is critical to our ability to retain and attract new customers. We are not a telecommunications carrier and as such we rely on third parties to provide our non-carrier customers with carrier services. We cannot assure you that the carriers operating within our data centers will not cease to do so. For example, as a result of strategic decisions or consolidations, some carriers may decide to downsize or terminate connectivity within our data centers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to reputational damage and legal action in connection with the information disseminated by our customers. We may face potential direct and indirect liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims, as well as reputational damage, based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated from our data centers, including on the grounds of allegations of the illegality of certain activities carried out by customers through their equipment located in our data centers. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by our customers may be regulated or banned. Our general liability insurance may not cover any such claim or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial e-mails (“spam”), which may be viewed as offensive by recipients, from servers hosted at our data centers to a number of people, typically to advertise products or services. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, letters from recipients of information transmitted by our customers objecting to spam. Although our contracts with our customers prohibit them from spamming, there can be no assurance that customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages, damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Regulation Laws and government regulations governing Internet-related services, related communication services and information technology and electronic commerce, across the European countries in which we operate, continue to evolve and, depending on the evolution of such regulations, may adversely affect our business. Laws and governmental regulations governing Internet-related services, related communications services and information technology and electronic commerce continue to evolve. This is true across the various European countries in which we operate. In particular, the laws regarding privacy and those regarding gambling and other activities that certain countries deem illegal are continuing to evolve. Changes in laws or regulations (or the interpretation of such laws or regulations) or national or EU policy affecting our activities and/or those of our customers and competitors, including regulation of prices and interconnection arrangements, regulation of access arrangements to types of infrastructure, regulation of privacy requirements through the protection of personal data and regulation of activity considered illegal through rules affecting data center and managed service providers could materially adversely affect our results by decreasing revenue, increasing costs or impairing our ability to offer services. The industry in which we operate is subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and may be subject to more stringent efficiency, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the future. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the generation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and technological equipment, the maintenance of warehouse facilities and the generation and use of electricity. Certain of these laws and regulations are capable of imposing liability for the entire cost of the investigation and remediation of contaminated sites, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the disposal activity, on former owners and operators of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances at any location. Compliance with these laws and regulations could impose substantial ongoing compliance costs and operating restrictions on us. 22 Table of Contents Hazardous substances or regulated materials of which we are not aware may be present at data centers leased and operated by us. If any such contaminants are discovered at our data centers, we may be responsible under applicable laws, regulations or leases for any required removal or clean-up or other action at substantial cost. Our facilities contain tanks and other containers for the storage of diesel fuel and significant quantities of lead acid batteries to provide back-up power. We cannot guarantee that our environmental compliance program will be able to prevent leaks or spills in these or other technical installations. In addition, as consumers of substantial amounts of electricity, we may be affected by the new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, or the Scheme. The CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Order 2010 entered into force on March 22, 2010 introducing a mandatory cap and trade scheme from April 1, 2010 applying to organizations, including our own, whose mandatory half hourly metered electricity consumption is greater than 6,000 MWh in the qualification period (which for the first phase of the CRC is calendar year 2008). Potential impacts on our data centers in the UK include the costs associated with improving energy efficiency and the administrative costs of participating in the Scheme. We will be required to purchase emissions allowances from the UK Government to cover our direct and indirect emissions in April of each year of the Scheme beginning in April 2012 (where allowances will be purchased for emissions from the 2011 fiscal year). The cost of the allowances for the initial period of the scheme will be £12/tonne, although the cost could increase in the later years of the Scheme, as allowances will be auctioned after the initial three-year introductory phase (as opposed to sold at a fixed price of £12/tonne). Our data centers may also be adversely affected by any future application of additional regulation relating to energy usage, for example seeking to reduce the power consumption of companies and fees or levies in this regard (including the EU Energy End-Use Efficiency and Energy Services Directive (Directive 2006/32/EC)). It is possible that the resulting legislation will mean that service providers that consume energy, such as us, may incur increased energy costs, and/or caps on energy use. The European Union is continuing to implement its Climate and Energy Package legislation with a 20% greenhouse gas emissions reduction target against 1990 for the 2013-2020 period and, following the December 2011 Durban climate summit, is actively involved in the extension of the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012. It is expected that this commitment may give rise to future domestic legislation relating to energy efficiency across the jurisdictions in which we have data centers and this may affect our business. Non-compliance with, or liabilities under, existing or future environmental or health and safety laws and regulations, including failure to hold requisite permits, or the adoption of more stringent requirements in the future, could result in fines, penalties, third-party claims and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related Our Ordinary Shares The market price for our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. The market price for our shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including, but not limited to, the following: • announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; • technological breakthroughs in the data center, networking or computing industries; • news regarding any gain or loss of customers by us; • news regarding recruitment or loss of key personnel by us or our competitors; • announcements of competitive developments, acquisitions or strategic alliances in our industry; 23 Table of Contents • changes in the general condition of the global economy and financial markets; • general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies, other industries and other events or factors beyond our control; • cost and availability of power and cooling capacity; • cost and availability of additional space inventory either through lease or acquisition in our target markets; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • changes in demand for interconnection and colocation products and services in general or at our facilities in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other data center companies; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. A substantial portion of our total outstanding ordinary shares may be sold into the market at any time. Such future sales or issuances, or perceived future sales or issuances, could adversely affect the price of our shares. If our existing shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding share options, the market price of our ordinary shares could be adversely impacted. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. The ordinary shares offered in our initial public offering were eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions. Shares previously held by our existing shareholders may also be sold in the public market in the future if registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or if such shares qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. Additionally, we intend to register all of our ordinary shares that we may issue under our employee stock ownership plans. Once we register those shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, unless pursuant to their terms these stock awards have transfer restrictions attached to them. You may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights. Our board of directors has the power to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights in respect of any issue and/or grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares. Such designation will be limited to our authorized share capital from time to time and will be effective for a period of five years. As a result, we may issue additional shares for future acquisitions or other purposes while excluding any pre-emptive rights. If we issue additional shares without pre-emptive rights, your ownership interests in our Company would be diluted and this in turn could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. 24 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and may sell additional ordinary shares or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We believe that our current cash, anticipated cash flow from operations and proceeds from our initial public offering and high yield note issuances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or utilize our existing or obtain a new credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our ability to pursue our business strategies, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditure, working capital requirements and other general corporate needs, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have never paid, do not currently intend to pay and may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares and currently do not plan to declare dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. If we were to choose to declare dividends in the future, the payment of cash dividends on our shares is restricted under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness. In that regard, our wholly-owned subsidiaries are limited in their ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to us. Under Dutch law, we may only pay dividends out of profits as shown in our adopted statutory annual accounts. We will only be able to declare and pay dividends to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. Our board of directors will have the discretion to determine to what extent profits shall be retained by way of a reserve. Appropriation and distribution of dividends will be subject to the approval of our general meeting of shareholders. Our board of directors, in determining to what extent profits shall be retained by way of a reserve, will consider our ability to declare and pay dividends in light of our future operations and earnings, capital expenditure requirements, general financial conditions, legal and contractual restrictions and other factors that it may deem relevant. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Dutch law and will differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and your shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in The Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors will be required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our Company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. We anticipate that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in The Netherlands. 25 Table of Contents In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. See Item 10 “Additional Information—General.” The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. See Item 10 “Additional Information—General.” The interests of our principal shareholders may be inconsistent with your interests. As of April 1, 2012, private equity investment funds affiliated with Baker Capital indirectly own 30.88% of our equity. Upon completion of our initial public offering, we entered into a shareholders agreement with affiliates of Baker Capital. For so long as Baker Capital or its affiliates continue to be the owner of shares representing more than 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares, Baker Capital will have the right to designate for nomination a majority of the members of our board of directors, including the right to nominate the chairman of our board of directors. Please see Item 7: “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”, “Related Party Transactions—Shareholders Agreement with Baker Capital.” As a result, these shareholders have, and will continue to have, directly or indirectly, the power, among other things, to affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, as well as the ability to elect and change our management and to approve other changes to our operation. The interests of Baker Capital and its affiliates could conflict with your interests, particularly if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts when due. Affiliates of Baker Capital may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, although such transactions might involve risks to you as a holder of ordinary shares. In addition, Baker Capital or its affiliates may, in the future, own businesses that directly compete with ours or do business with us. The concentration of ownership may further have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, as permitted by the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, we may rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Many of the corporate governance rules in the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual (the “NYSE Manual”) do not apply to the Company as a “foreign private issuer”; however, Rule 303A.11 requires foreign private issuers to describe significant differences between their corporate governance standards and the corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. companies listed on the NYSE. While the Company’s management believes that its corporate governance practices are similar in many respects to those of U.S. NYSE-listed companies and provide investors with protections that are comparable in many respects to those established by the NYSE Manual, there are certain key differences which are described below. Under Sections 303A.04 and 303A.05 of the NYSE Manual, which govern nominating/corporate governance committees and compensation committees, respectively, the Company’s Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee do not meet the independence standard of the NYSE Manual, as one (1) member of each respective committee is not “independent” as defined under the applicable NYSE Manual standard. For an overview of our corporate governance principles, see Item 16G “Corporate Governance.” Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. 26 Table of Contents You may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us. We are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States and certain of our directors and officers and certain other persons named in this annual report are, and will continue to be, non-residents of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the United States, it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our non-U.S. resident directors and officers or to enforce in the United States any judgment against us or them including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may have to be enforced in the courts of The Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and The Netherlands with respect to legal judgments, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of The Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of The Netherlands and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on grounds that are internationally acceptable. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of The Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a newly listed public company, we incur additional legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we have not incurred as a private company. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the NYSE have imposed increased regulation and required enhanced corporate governance practices for public companies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. 27 Table of Contents 