Risk Factors.” We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future debt and equity financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when due, including our outstanding €475.0 million 6.00% Senior Secured Notes (the “Senior Secured Notes”), or to fund our other liquidity needs. See Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” 19 Table of Contents If our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources (including borrowings under our €100.0 million revolving facility (the “Revolving Facility”) are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: • reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures; • sell assets; • obtain additional debt or equity capital; or • restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the Senior Secured Notes, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms or our debt, including the Revolving Facility and the Senior Secured Notes, will limit, and any future debt may limit, our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. We may need to refinance our outstanding debt We may need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, such as mortgages with quarterly repayment schedules, our PAR7 finance lease obligation due in 2019 and the Senior Secured Notes. We may also need to finance the repurchase of all or a portion of the Senior Secured Notes upon the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the indenture for the Senior Secured Notes) in connection with the proposed transaction with TelecityGroup. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. These risks could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the Revolving Facility or incur other new indebtedness, the risks described above would increase. We are subject to significant restrictive debt covenants, which limit our operating flexibility. Our Revolving Facility and the Indenture (as defined below) governing the Senior Secured Notes contain covenants which impose significant restrictions on the way we and our subsidiaries operate, including but not limited to, restrictions on the ability to: • create certain liens; • incur debt and/or guarantees; • enter into transactions other than on arm’s-length basis; • pay dividends or make certain distributions or payments; • engage, in relation to the Company, in any business activity or own assets or incur liabilities not authorized by the agreement governing the Revolving Facility (the “Revolving Facility Agreement”); • sell certain kinds of assets; • impair any security interest on the assets serving as collateral for the Senior Secured Notes; • enter into any sale and leaseback transactions; • make certain investments or other types of restricted payments; • substantially change the nature of the Company’s or the Group’s business; • designate unrestricted subsidiaries; and • effect mergers, consolidations or sale of assets. These covenants could limit our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business activities that may be in our interest. 20 Table of Contents Our Revolving Facility also requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio. The restrictive covenants are subject to customary exceptions including, in relation to the incurrence of additional debt, a consolidated fixed charge ratio (calculated as a ratio of adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense) to exceed 2.00 to 1.00 on a pro forma basis for the four full fiscal quarters (taken as one period) for which financial statements are available immediately preceding the incurrence of such debt and, if such debt is senior debt, a consolidated senior leverage ratio (calculated as a ratio of outstanding senior debt of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (on a consolidated basis) to pro forma adjusted EBITDA) to be less than 4.00 to 1.00 on a pro forma basis for the four full fiscal quarters (taken as one period) for which financial statements are available immediately preceding the incurrence of such debt. The Revolving Facility Agreement also includes a leverage ratio financial covenant (tested on a quarterly basis) requiring total net debt (calculated as a ratio to pro forma EBITDA) not to exceed a leverage ratio of 4.00 to 1.00. In addition, the Company must ensure, under the Revolving Facility Agreement, that the guarantors represent a certain percentage of adjusted EBITDA of the Group as a whole and a certain percentage of the consolidated net assets of the Group as a whole. Our ability to meet these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the covenants. In the event of a default under our Revolving Facility, the lenders could terminate their commitments and declare all amounts owed to them to be due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions, including the Senior Secured Notes, may as a result also be accelerated and become due and payable. We may be unable to pay these debts in such circumstances or to the extent we pay such debts, we may not have sufficient cash to fund our working capital expenditure needs. Risks Related to our Industry The European data center industry has suffered from over-capacity in the past, and a substantial increase in the supply of new data center capacity and/or a general decrease in demand for data center services could have an adverse impact on industry pricing and profit margins. The European data center industry has previously suffered from overcapacity. For example, certain Internet-based customers have previously contracted to use more space than necessary to meet their needs and in the periods following adverse market conditions, the number of Internet-related business failures increased significantly, resulting in high levels of customer churn due to the termination or non-renewal of contracts. A substantial increase in the supply of new data center capacity in the European data center market and/or a general decrease in demand, or in the rate of increase in demand, for data center services could have an adverse impact on industry pricing and profit margins. If there is insufficient customer demand for data center services, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with technological changes, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, our competitive position will suffer. The Internet and telecommunications industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. Accordingly, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to meet the challenge of these changes. Among the most important challenges that we may face are the need to: continue to develop our strategic and technical expertise, influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes, enhance our current services and develop new services that meet changing customer needs. All of these challenges must be met in a timely and cost-effective manner. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, which would allow them to react better or more quickly to changes than we may be able to. We may not effectively meet these challenges as rapidly as our competitors or at all and our failure to do so could harm our business. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. Due to the high volume of important data that passes through data centers, there is a real risk that terrorists seeking to damage financial and technological infrastructure view data centers generally, and those in concentrated areas specifically, as potential targets. These factors may increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to pass such costs on to our customers. These circumstances may also adversely affect the ability of companies, including us, to raise capital. We may not have adequate property and liability insurance to cover terrorist attacks. In addition, we depend heavily on the physical infrastructure (particularly as it relates to power) that exists in the markets in which we operate. Any damage to such infrastructure, particularly in the major European markets such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London and Paris, where we derive a substantial amount of our revenue and which are likely to be more prone to terrorist activities, may materially and adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Our carrier neutral business model depends on the presence of numerous telecommunications carrier networks in our data centers. The presence of diverse telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks in our data centers is critical to our ability to retain and attract new customers. We are not a telecommunications carrier and as such we rely on third parties to provide our non-carrier customers with carrier services. We cannot assure you that the carriers operating within our data centers will not cease to do so. For example, as a result of strategic decisions or consolidations, some carriers may decide to downsize or terminate connectivity within our data centers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to reputational damage and legal action in connection with the information disseminated by our customers. We may face potential direct and indirect liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims, as well as reputational damage, based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated from our data centers, including on the grounds of allegations of the illegality of certain activities carried out by customers through their equipment located in our data centers. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by our customers may be regulated or banned. Our general liability insurance may not cover any such claim or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial emails (“spam”), which may be viewed as offensive by recipients, from servers hosted at our data centers to a number of people, typically to advertise products or services. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, letters from recipients of information transmitted by our customers objecting to spam. Although our contracts with our customers prohibit them from spamming, there can be no assurance that customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages, damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Regulation Laws and government regulations governing Internet-related services, related communication services and information technology and electronic commerce, across the European countries in which we operate, continue to evolve and, depending on the evolution of such regulations, may adversely affect our business. Laws and governmental regulations governing Internet-related services, related communications services and information technology and electronic commerce continue to evolve. This is true across the various European countries in which we operate. In particular, the laws regarding privacy and those regarding gambling and other activities that certain countries deem illegal are continuing to evolve. Changes in laws or regulations (or the interpretation of such laws or regulations) or national or EU policy affecting our activities and/or those of our customers and competitors, including regulation of prices and interconnection arrangements, regulation of access arrangements to types of infrastructure, regulation of privacy requirements through the protection of personal data and regulation of activity considered illegal through rules affecting data center and managed service providers could materially adversely affect our results by decreasing revenue, increasing costs or impairing our ability to offer services. We and the industry in which we operate are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and may be subject to more stringent efficiency, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the future, including with respect to energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the generation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and technological equipment, the maintenance of warehouse facilities and the generation and use of electricity. Certain of these laws and regulations are capable of imposing liability for the entire cost of the investigation and remediation of contaminated sites or buildings containing hazardous materials such as asbestos, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the activity causing the contamination, on current and former owners and occupiers of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances at any location. Compliance with these laws and regulations could impose substantial ongoing compliance costs and operating restrictions on us. 22 Table of Contents Hazardous substances or regulated materials of which we are not aware may be present at data centers leased and operated by us. If any such contaminants are discovered at our data centers, we may be responsible under applicable laws, regulations or leases for any required removal or clean-up or other action at substantial cost. Our facilities contain tanks and other containers for the storage of diesel fuel and significant quantities of lead acid batteries to provide back-up power. We cannot guarantee that our environmental compliance program will be able to prevent leaks or spills in these or other technical installations. In addition, due to our high levels of energy consumption, we may incur substantial costs purchasing allowances under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and/or in connection with upgrading our data centers to improve the energy efficiency of our operations. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-compliance with, or liabilities under, existing or future environmental or health and safety laws and regulations, including failure to hold requisite permits, or the adoption of more stringent requirements in the future, could result in fines, penalties, third-party claims and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on us. Our data centers may also be adversely affected by any future application of additional regulation relating to energy usage, for example, seeking to reduce the power consumption of companies and fees or levies related thereto. Changes in Dutch or foreign tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof may adversely affect our financial position. We are a Dutch company with European subsidiaries and are subject to income tax in The Netherlands and foreign income tax in the countries we conduct operations, including The Netherlands, France, Germany and the UK. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities and obligations. Although we believe that we have adequately assessed and accounted for our potential tax liabilities, and that our tax estimates including our transfer pricing estimates are reasonable, there can be no certainty that additional taxes will not be due upon an audit of our tax returns or as a result of changes to applicable tax laws and interpretations thereof. In addition, several of the governments in which we conduct operations, including The Netherlands, France, Germany and the UK, are actively considering changes to their respective taxation regimes, which may impact the recognition and taxation of worldwide income. The nature and timing of any amendments to tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate and the impact on our future tax liabilities cannot be predicted with any certainty, however any such amendments or changes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial position including cash flows. In the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we were adversely impacted by a ‘one-time’ crisis wage tax in The Netherlands. This tax was introduced as a one-time crisis wage tax, however, we were subject to this tax again in the year ended December 31, 2013. In the year ended December 31, 2014, this crisis wage tax was no longer collected by the Dutch government. Laws and government regulations governing the licenses or permits we need across the European countries in which we operate may change, which can adversely affect our business. We operate data centers and other facilities in 11 countries and as a result of our international operations, we are subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. General economic, political, or social conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our revenues from operations in those countries. In addition, we may be unable to obtain, renew or retain licenses or permits for our operations, data centers and other facilities for legal, environmental or regulatory reasons. In February 2015, we received notification from local Madrid municipal authorities that we lack certain required certificates of data center occupation and operation at our data centers in Madrid (MAD 1 and MAD 2). We have obtained the certificates for the MAD 1 data center, and we have made good progress obtaining these certificates for the MAD 2 data center. Although we expect to obtain these certificates in due course, there can be no assurance that we will obtain the requisite certificates in a timely fashion, which could result in the temporary cessation of our operations at our MAD 2 data center. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market price for our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, the closing sale price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) ranged from $22.39 to $29.70 per share. The market price for our shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including, but not limited to, the following: • the announcement of our proposed transaction with TelecityGroup, and news regarding developments prior to the consummation of the transaction, including news regarding regulatory approval of the transaction, completion of the transaction or termination of the Implementation Agreement and more broadly, the proposed transaction; • announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; • technological breakthroughs in the data center, networking or computing industries; • news regarding any gain or loss of customers by us; • news regarding recruitment or loss of key personnel by us or our competitors; • announcements of competitive developments, acquisitions or strategic alliances in our industry; • changes in the general condition of the global economy and financial markets; • general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies, other industries and other events or factors beyond our control; • cost and availability of power and cooling capacity; • cost and availability of additional space inventory either through lease or acquisition in our target markets; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • changes in demand for interconnection and colocation products and services in general or at our facilities in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other data center companies; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. A substantial portion of our total outstanding ordinary shares may be sold into the market at any time. Such future sales or issuances, or perceived future sales or issuances, could adversely affect the price of our shares. If our existing shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding share options, the market price of our ordinary shares could be adversely impacted. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. The ordinary shares offered in our initial public offering were eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions. Shares previously held by our existing shareholders may also be sold in the public market in the future if registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or if such shares qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. Additionally, we intend to register all of our ordinary shares that we may issue under our employee stock ownership plans. Once we register those shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, unless pursuant to their terms these stock awards have transfer restrictions attached to them. You may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights. Our board of directors has the power to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights in respect of any issue and/or grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares. Such designation will be limited to our authorized share capital from time to time and will be effective for a period of five years. As a result, we may issue additional shares for future acquisitions or other purposes while excluding any pre-emptive rights. If we issue additional shares without pre-emptive rights, your ownership interests in our Company would be diluted and this in turn could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. 24 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and may sell additional ordinary shares or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We believe that our current cash and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or utilize our existing or obtain a new credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our ability to pursue our business strategies, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditure, working capital requirements and other general corporate needs, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have never paid, do not currently intend to pay and may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares and currently do not plan to declare dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. If we were to choose to declare dividends in the future, the payment of cash dividends on our shares is restricted under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness and the Implementation Agreement. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness. In that regard, our wholly-owned subsidiaries are limited in their ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to us. Under Dutch law, we may only pay dividends out of profits as shown in our adopted statutory annual accounts. We will only be able to declare and pay dividends to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. Our board of directors will have the discretion to determine to what extent profits shall be retained by way of a reserve. Appropriation and distribution of dividends will be subject to the approval of our general meeting of shareholders. Our board of directors, in determining to what extent profits shall be retained by way of a reserve, will consider our ability to declare and pay dividends in light of our future operations and earnings, capital expenditure requirements, general financial conditions, legal and contractual restrictions and other factors that it may deem relevant. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Dutch law and will differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and your shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in The Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors will be required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our Company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. We anticipate that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in The Netherlands. In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. See Item 10 “Additional Information—General.” The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. See Item 10 “Additional Information—General.” 25 Table of Contents The interests of our principal shareholders may be inconsistent with your interests. As of March 31, 2015, private equity investment funds affiliated with Baker Capital indirectly owned 26.85% of our equity. Upon completion of our initial public offering, we entered into a shareholders agreement with affiliates of Baker Capital. For so long as Baker Capital or its affiliates continue to be the owner of shares representing more than 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares, Baker Capital will have the right to designate for nomination a majority of the members of our board of directors, including the right to nominate the chairman of our board of directors. As a result, these shareholders have, and will continue to have, directly or indirectly, the power, among other things, to affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, as well as the ability to elect and change our management and to approve other changes to our operation. If the proposed transaction with TelecityGroup is consummated, the shareholders agreement with Baker Capital will terminate. Please see Item 7: “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Shareholders Agreement with Baker Capital.” The interests of Baker Capital and its affiliates could conflict with your interests, particularly if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts when due. Affiliates of Baker Capital may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, although such transactions might involve risks to you as a holder of ordinary shares. In addition, Baker Capital or its affiliates may, in the future, own businesses that directly compete with ours or that do business with us. The concentration of ownership may further have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, and as permitted by the listing requirements of the NYSE, we may rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Many of the corporate governance rules of the NYSE do not apply to the Company as a “foreign private issuer”; however, Rule 303A.11 requires foreign private issuers to describe significant differences between their corporate governance standards and the corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. companies listed on the NYSE. While the Company’s management believes that its corporate governance practices are similar in many respects to those of U.S. NYSE-listed companies and provide investors with protections that are comparable in many respects to those established by the NYSE rules, there are certain key differences which are described below. Under Sections 303A.04 and 303A.05 of the NYSE rules, which govern nominating/corporate governance committees and compensation committees, respectively, the Company’s Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee do not meet the NYSE independence standard, as one (1) member of each respective committee is not “independent” as defined under the applicable NYSE rules. For an overview of our corporate governance principles, see Item 16G “Corporate Governance.” As a result, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. You may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us. We are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States and certain of our directors and officers and certain other persons named in this annual report are, and will continue to be, non-residents of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the United States, it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our non-U.S. resident directors and officers or to enforce in the United States any judgment against us or them including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may, therefore, have to be enforced in the courts of The Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and The Netherlands with respect to legal judgments, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of The Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of The Netherlands and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on grounds that are internationally acceptable. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of The Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws. 26 Table of Contents We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a listed public company, we incur additional legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses than we would have incurred as a private company. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the NYSE have imposed increased regulation and required enhanced corporate governance practices for public companies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. If our internal controls over financial reporting are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Our most recent evaluation of our internal controls resulted in our conclusion that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective. Our ability to manage our operations and growth, and other systems upgrades designed to support our growth, will require us to develop our controls and reporting systems and implement or adopt new controls and reporting systems. If in the future our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, or if a material weakness is identified in our controls over financial reporting, our financial results may be adversely affected. Investors may also lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements which could adversely affect our stock price. 27 Table of Contents 