D. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risk factors set out below and consider all other information contained here and in our other public filings before making an investment decision. The risks set out below are not an exhaustive list, nor should they be taken as a complete summary or description of all the risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas business generally. 2 Risks Related to Our Company’s Business and Industry Exploration, development and production of oil and gas resources are inherently speculative, and a failure to add new reserves would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Without the continual addition of new reserves, any existing reserves we may have at any particular time will decline over time as such existing reserves are depleted and rate of production slows, and therefore our long-term commercial success depends on our ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas reserves. Future increase in our reserves and replacement of our existing reserves will depend not only on our ability to explore and develop any properties we may have from time to time, but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects. No assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation. In addition, if acquisitions or participations are identified, our management may determine that current markets, the terms of acquisition and participation or pricing conditions make such acquisitions or participations uneconomic. Further, future acquisitions or participations that management decides to pursue may involve unprofitable efforts from dry wells and from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient petroleum substances to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. There is no assurance that we will discover or acquire any further commercial quantities of oil and natural gas to replace our existing reserves or increase our reserves in the future. Lastly, if commodity prices were to drop significantly, we could defer our capital expenditure and drilling programs which would delay adding new reserves to maintain our cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our future oil and gas exploration, development and production operations are hazardous and subject to uncertainty, and these hazards and uncertainties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with such operations, including hazards of drilling operations such as fire, explosion, blowouts, cratering, sour gas releases, spills and extreme weather conditions, each of which could result in substantial damage to oil and natural gas wells, production facilities, other property and the environment or personal injury, and including geological problems such as unexpected formations or pressures, premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. In particular, we may explore for and produce sour natural gas in certain areas. An unintentional leak of sour natural gas could result in personal injury, loss of life or damage to property and may necessitate an evacuation of populated areas, all of which could result in liability to us. Such risks and hazards may delay or greatly increase the cost of operations, may adversely affect the development of new wells or the production from successful wells and may cause losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly which could adversely affect our net production revenue and oil and natural gas operations, reserves and our ability to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and on development and exploration projects. The prices of oil and natural gas prices may be volatile and subject to fluctuation, and any material decline in prices could result in a reduction of our net production revenue and the volumes of our reserves and could negatively impact our ability to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and on development and exploration projects.The price of oil declined from approximately US$80/bbl in November, 2014 to below US$45/bbl through January, 2015 and has subsequently fluctuated between US$43/bbl and as high as US$55/bbl. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include economic conditions, in the United States and Canada, the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”), governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, risks of supply disruption, the price of foreign imports and the availability of alternative fuel sources. The economics of producing from some wells may change as a result of lower prices, which could result in reduced production of oil or gas and a reduction in the volumes of our reserves. We might also elect not to produce from certain wells at lower prices. All of these factors could result in a material decrease in our expected net production revenue and a reduction in our oil and gas acquisition, development and exploration activities. 3 In addition, any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and gas would have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our reserves, borrowing capacity, revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, bank borrowings available to us may, in part, be determined by our borrowing base. A sustained material decline in prices from historical average prices could reduce our borrowing base, therefore reducing the bank credit available to us which could require that a portion, or all, of any of our outstanding bank debt be repaid. Further, petroleum prices are expected to remain volatile for the near future as a result of market uncertainties over the supply and the demand of these commodities due to the current state of the world economies, OPEC actions and the ongoing credit and liquidity concerns. Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and on development and exploration projects. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to undertake or complete future drilling programs or fund our ongoing activities, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our cash flow from our reserves may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times or to fund the substantial capital expenditures that we may incur for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future, which insufficiency may cause us to seek financing that could be limited, unavailable or available only on unfavorable terms. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in certain properties, miss certain acquisition opportunities and reduce or terminate our operations. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available to meet our financing requirements or, if available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. The market events and conditions witnessed over the past several years, including disruptions in the international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of global economic conditions, have caused significant volatility to and reductions in commodity prices. The continued uncertainty in the global economic situation means that we may continue to face restricted access to capital and increased borrowing costs. To the extent that our cash flow from our reserves is insufficient, whether as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, and that external sources of capital are limited, unavailable or available only on unfavourable terms, our ability to make capital investments, maintain existing properties, undertake or complete future drilling programs or to generally carry out our oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development activities may be constrained, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain future debt financing, or only under restrictive terms, which may adversely impact our exploration and production activities. From time to time, we may enter into transactions to acquire assets or the shares of other organizations. These transactions may be financed in whole or in part with debt, which may increase our debt levels above industry standards for oil and natural gas companies of similar size. Depending on future exploration and development plans, we may require additional debt financing that may not be available or, if available, may not be available on favourable terms. Neither our notice of articles nor articles limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. The level of our indebtedness from time to time could impair our ability to obtain additional financing on a timely basis to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, the terms of the indebtedness we may incur could include covenants imposing significant restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to encumber or charge our assets or properties in order to secure any further indebtedness and restrictions on our ability to amalgamate with or merge into any other entity or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our properties or assets, without first repaying the indebtedness in full. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and, in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 We may not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions and dispositions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets in our ordinary course of business depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses with our operations and the timing of dispositions to coincide with an advantageous price. The integration of acquired business may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management's focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. Management continually assesses the value and contribution of services provided and assets required to provide such services. In this regard, non-core assets are periodically disposed of, so that we can focus our efforts and resources more efficiently. Depending on the state of the market for such non-core assets at the time of sale, certain of our non-core assets, if disposed of, could be expected to realize less than their carrying value on our financial statements. An inability on our part to realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions and dispositions, whether because of a failure to consolidate functions and integrate operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner, to combine the acquired businesses with our operations or to dispose of businesses and assets at an opportune time, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend upon operators of certain of our assets and on joint venture partners, and any failure of an operator or joint venture partner to perform, or any disputes or disagreement with an operator or joint venture partner, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We do not operate all of our projects and we own certain of our projects with joint venture partners. For those projects that we do not operate, we have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of our projects, or the associated costs of operations, that are operated by other companies. Our return on assets operated by others depends upon a number of factors that may be outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, the approval of other participants, the selection of technology and risk management practices. In addition, we own certain of our interests through joint venture or similar arrangements. Joint ventures involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example, that a joint venture partner may not pay its share of obligations, we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by a joint venture partner and that we may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of the joint venture for which we will not receive a commensurate return. Failure of an operator to perform, or disputes with operators or other participants, may result in delays, litigation or operational impasse. The risks described above or the failure to resolve disagreements could result in significant cost and delay, or adversely affect the ability of the parties to operate and develop the relevant projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to market oil and natural gas depends on our ability to transport our product to market, and restricted access to pipelines, storage and processing facilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The lack of firm pipeline capacity and the pro-rationing of capacity on the inter-provincial pipeline systems continues to affect the oil and natural gas industry in western Canada, which, along with potential deliverability uncertainties related to the proximity of our reserves to pipelines and processing and storage facilities and operational problems affecting such pipelines and facilities, may limit our ability to produce and market our oil and gas production, and therefore we may receive discounted pricing. There is no guarantee that current pipeline construction projects, including projects to increase rail handling and transportation of oil and other liquid hydrocarbons, presently pending before various regulatory bodies will be approved or will ameliorate conditions. As a result, even if we are able to engage in successful exploration and production activities, we may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that we produce, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unavailability of equipment and qualified personnel could delay our exploration and production activities which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be no assurance that sufficient drilling and completion equipment, services and supplies will be available when needed or that qualified personnel will be available. Our oil and gas exploration and development activities are dependent on the availability of drilling and related equipment in the particular areas where such activities will be conducted. Demand for limited equipment or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to us. Similarly, if the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified rig crews rise in the drilling industry, then the oil and gas industry may experience shortages of qualified personnel to operate drilling rigs. Unavailability of equipment and qualified personnel could each delay our exploration and development activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 5 Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate and are subject to revision based on production history, and material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions, or revision based on production history, may adversely affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves and the future cash flows attributed to such reserves. Our reserves and associated cash flow information included in this Form 20-F are estimates only. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, production rates, ultimate reserve recovery, timing and amount of capital expenditures, marketability of oil and gas, royalty rates, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future operating costs, all of which may vary materially from actual results. For those reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues associated with reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times may vary. Our actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to our reserves will vary from estimates thereof and such variations could be material. Estimates of proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Recovery factors and drainage areas were estimated by experience and analogy to similar producing pools. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history and production practices will result in variations in the estimated reserves and such variations could be material. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than us which can increase competitive pressures and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The petroleum industry is competitive in all its phases. We compete with numerous other industry participants in the search for, and the acquisition of, oil and natural gas properties, and without the acquisition of suitable oil and gas properties our ability to increase our reserves in the future may be impaired. In addition, we compete with other industry participants for the sourcing and availability of equipment, raw materials and component parts necessary in petroleum and natural gas exploration and development. As demand for drilling rigs and related equipment and services increases, delays and increased pricing may occur, either of which could result in delays in our planned projects and adversely affect our business. Further, we compete with other industry participants in the distribution and marketing of oil and gas with respect to price, methods, pipeline access and reliability of delivery and availability of imported products, all of which may be affected by factors beyond our control and which could adversely affect the our financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors include oil and natural gas companies that have substantially greater financial and technical, resources, staff and facilities than us, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities not available to us, obtain drilling rigs and related equipment and services that we cannot and secure superior means of distribution and marketing of oil and gas, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations are subject to various laws and governmental regulations, including permitting, and the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The exploration, production, pricing, marketing and transportation of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government, which may be amended from time to time. Governments may regulate or intervene with respect to exploration and production practices and activities, price, taxes, royalties and the exportation of oil and natural gas. Also, in order to conduct oil and natural gas operations, we will require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all of the licenses and permits that may be required to conduct operations that it may wish to undertake. Governmental regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas and crude oil and increase our costs, any of which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 6 Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulation, which require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial and local laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and natural gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach of applicable environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material, the suspension or revocation of necessary licenses and permits, and civil liability for pollution damage. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. No assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and on the demand for oil and gas. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to a warming of the Earth's atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that require reporting and reductions of the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a by-product of the burning of oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. There has been much public debate with respect to Canada's and Provincial Governments’ respective strategies with respect to climate change and the control of greenhouse gases. See the discussion under the heading “Item 4.B. Government Regulations – Environmental and Climate Change Regulation”. Any existing or future legislative or regulatory initiatives that restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and compliance costs to us and, further, may adversely affect demand for the fossil fuels we produce, including by increasing the cost of combusting fossil fuels and by creating incentives for the use of alternative fuels and energy. Implementation of such initiatives for reducing greenhouse gases could accordingly have an adverse impact on the nature of oil and natural gas operations, including ours. Given the evolving nature of the debate related to climate change and the control of greenhouse gases and the evolving legislative requirements, it is not possible to predict the impact on us and our operations and financial condition. Changes to the royalty regime may reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the governments of Alberta, British Columbia or Canada will not adopt a new royalty regime or modify the methodology of royalty calculations that would increase the royalties we pay. See the information regarding royalty rates under the heading “Item 4.B. Government Regulations – Provincial Royalties and Incentives”. An increase of royalty rates would reduce our earnings and make certain of our projects uneconomic. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. World oil and gas prices are quoted in United States dollars and the price received by Canadian producers, including us, is therefore affected by the Canadian/United States dollar exchange rate, which will fluctuate over time. In recent years, the Canadian dollar has increased materially in value against the United States dollar. Material increases in the value of the Canadian dollar negatively impact our production revenues. Future Canadian/United States dollar exchange rate fluctuations could accordingly impact our cash flows and the future value of our reserves as determined by independent evaluators. 7 Our future hedging activities may not prove beneficial. From time to time, we may enter into agreements to receive fixed prices on our oil and natural gas production to offset the risk of revenue losses if commodity prices decline; however, if commodity prices increase beyond the levels set in such agreements, we will not benefit from such increases and we may nevertheless be obligated to pay royalties on such higher prices, even though not received by it, after giving effect to such agreements. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies as title to our oil and natural gas producing properties cannot be guaranteed and may be subject to prior recorded or unrecorded agreements, transfer, claims or other defects. Although title reviews may be conducted prior to the purchase of oil and natural gas producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not guarantee or certify that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat our claim, and our actual interest in properties may, therefore, vary from our records. The loss of a property, including the loss of our investment, or the loss of the right to produce all or a portion of oil and gas resources under a property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Exploration and development oil and gas properties involve significant risks that cannot always be covered by insurance or contractual protections, and in the event that a significant accident occurs for which we are not fully insured, our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Our involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and natural gas properties may result in us becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow outs, leaks of sour natural gas, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although we maintain insurance in accordance with industry standards to address certain of these risks, such insurance has limitations on liability and may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks are not, in all circumstances, insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may elect not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. The payment of any uninsured liabilities would reduce the availability of our funds. The occurrence of a significant event that we are not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to manage our anticipated growth. We may be subject to growth-related risks including capacity constraints and pressure on our internal systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to deal with this growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are dependent upon the grant and maintenance of appropriate licenses and leases and if we are unable to meet all obligations necessary to maintain these licenses and leases it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our properties are held in the form of licences and leases and working interests in licences and leases. If we or the holder of a licence or lease fails to meet the specific requirement of such licence or lease, such licence or lease may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each licence or lease will be met. The termination or expiration of our licences or leases or the working interests relating to a licence or lease may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Seasonal and unexpected weather patterns may lead to a decrease in exploration and production activity which would adversely impact our operations. The level of activity in the Canadian oil and gas industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment, thereby reducing activity levels. Also, certain oil and natural gas producing areas are located in areas that are inaccessible other than during the winter months because the ground surrounding the sites in these areas consists of swampy terrain. Seasonal factors and unexpected weather patterns may lead to declines in our exploration and production activity during certain parts of the year, which would adversely impact our operations. 8 We may be exposed to third-party credit risk through certain of our business arrangements, and non-payments or defaults by these third parties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to third party credit risk through our contractual arrangements with our current or future joint venture partners, marketers of our oil and natural gas production and other parties. In the event such entities fail to meet their contractual obligations to us, such failures may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, poor credit conditions in the industry and of joint venture partners may impact a joint venture partner's willingness to participate in an ongoing capital program, potentially delaying the program and the results of such program until we find a suitable, alternative partner. Our business may suffer if we lose key management personnel which could result in us having to cease operations. Our success depends in large measure on certain key management personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, retain and replace all personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business. We do not have any key person insurance. The loss of the services of key management personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could ultimately cause us to cease operations. Reassessment of our income tax returns may prove to be detrimental to our business and financial condition. We file all required income tax returns and believe they are in full compliance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and all other applicable provincial tax legislation. However, such returns are subject to reassessment by the applicable taxation authority. In the event of a successful reassessment, whether by re-characterization of exploration and development expenditures or otherwise, such reassessment may have an impact on current and future taxes payable and could be detrimental to our business and financial condition. Our operations are subject to various litigation risks that could impact our financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of our operations, we may become involved in, named as a party to, or be the subject of, various legal proceedings, including regulatory proceedings, tax proceedings and legal actions, relating to personal injuries, property damage, property taxes, land rights, the environment and contract disputes. The outcome of outstanding, pending or future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may be determined adversely to us and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we prevail in any such legal proceeding, the proceedings could be costly and time-consuming and may divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Conflicts of interest may arise among our directors and officers as a result of their involvement with other oil and gas endeavors leading to the potential loss of personnel which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There are potential conflicts of interest to which some of our directors and officers will be subject in connection with our operations. Some of our directors and officers are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the search of oil and gas interests on their own behalf and on behalf of other corporations. Richard Wyman, one of our directors, is also a director of Tower Resources Ltd. and is president and director of Northern Cross (Yukon) Ltd. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time that can be resolved only through our directors and officers exercising such judgment as are consistent with duties to their other business interests and ours. Such conflicts pose the risk that we may enter into a transaction on terms which place us in a worse position than if no conflict existed. 9 Conflicts of interest, if any, that arise will be subject to and be governed by procedures prescribed by the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) (the “BCBCA”) which requires a director or officer of a corporation who is a party to or is a director or an officer of or has a material interest in any person who is a party to a material contract or proposed material contract with us, to disclose his interest and to refrain from voting on any matter in respect of such contract unless otherwise permitted under the BCBCA. Our properties and assets may be subject to aboriginal title and rights claims and if such a claim is successfully made in respect of our property or assets, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to portions of western Canada. We are not aware that any claims have been made in respect of our properties and assets; however, if a claim arose and was successful, our ability to develop such property and assets could be impaired, or we may lose the such property and assets altogether, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Restrictive regulation may limit our ability to market oil and natural gas and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects Restrictive regulation implemented in the future could affect our ability to market oil and natural gas. The producers of oil are entitled to negotiate sales contracts directly with oil purchasers, with the result that the market determines the price of oil. Oil prices are primarily based on worldwide supply and demand. The specific price depends in part on oil quality, prices of competing fuels, distance to the markets, the value of refined products, the supply/demand balance, and other contractual terms. Oil exporters are also entitled to enter into export contracts with terms not exceeding one year in the case of light crude oil and two years in the case of heavy crude oil, provided that an order approving such export has been obtained from the National Energy Board of Canada (the “NEB”). Any oil export to be made pursuant to a contract of longer duration (to a maximum of 25 years) requires an exporter to obtain an export licence from the NEB and the issuance of such licence requires a public hearing and the approval of the Governor in Council. The price of natural gas is determined by negotiation between buyers and sellers. Natural gas exported from Canada is subject to regulation by the NEB and the Government of Canada. Exporters are free to negotiate prices and other terms with purchasers, provided that the export contracts must continue to meet certain other criteria prescribed by the NEB and the Government of Canada. Natural gas (other than propane, butane and ethane) exports for a term of less than two years or for a term of two to 20 years (in quantities of not more than 30,000 m3/day), must be made pursuant to an NEB order. Any natural gas export to be made pursuant to a contract of longer duration (to a maximum of 25 years) or a larger quantity requires an exporter to obtain an export licence from the NEB and the issuance of such licence requires a public hearing and the approval of the Governor in Council. The governments of Alberta and British Columbia also regulate the volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces for consumption elsewhere based on such factors as reserve availability, transportation arrangements, and market considerations. Subject to certain limitations under the North American Free Trade Agreement among the governments of Canada, U.S., and Mexico, effective on January 1, 1994 (“NAFTA”), Canada may impose export restrictions on oil and natural gas to the U.S. Any inability to market our oil and natural gas due to restrictive regulations could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our petroleum assets, business, financial condition, result from operations and prospects. Recently adopted accounting pronouncements may impact our future results and financial position. Certain pronouncements have been issued by the IASB that are mandatory for accounting periods after December 31, 2014 or later periods. The new standards, amendments and interpretations, which are set forth under the heading “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Future Accounting Pronouncements”, have not been early adopted in our financial statements. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the new guidance will have on our future results and financial position. 10 Risks Relating to the Common Shares We have never paid dividends and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We do not currently pay any dividends on our outstanding common shares. Payments of dividends in the future will be dependent on, among other things, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition, the need for funds to finance ongoing operations and other considerations, as our board of directors (“Board of Directors”) considers relevant. Future sales or issuances of equity securities could decrease the value of the common shares, dilute investors' voting power and reduce our earnings per share. Our constating documents permit it to issue an unlimited number of common shares. Our goal is to continually increase our oil and gas reserves. To achieve that goal, we will require substantial amounts of capital in excess of funds from operations. We may choose to raise the required capital through the issuance of additional common shares or other securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for common shares. We may also make future acquisitions through the issuance of shares. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of equity securities or the size and terms of future issuances of debt instruments or other securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable into common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our securities will have on the market price of the common shares. Any transaction involving the issuance of previously authorized but unissued shares, or securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable into common shares, including exercises of presently outstanding options, would result in dilution to holders of common shares. Re-sales of substantial amounts of the common shares, or the availability of such securities for re-sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the common shares and dilute our earnings per share. A decline in the market price of the common shares could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we have the desire to do so. The market price of our common shares may be volatile and your investment in our common shares could suffer a decline in value. The market price of common shares may fluctuate due to a variety of factors relative to our business, including announcements of new developments, fluctuations in our operating results, sales of the common shares in the marketplace, failure to meet analysts’ expectations, any public announcements made in regards to us, the impact of various tax laws or rates and general market conditions or the worldwide economy. In recent years, stock markets have experience significant price fluctuations, which have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common shares will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance, and volatility may affect your ability to sell our common shares at an advantageous price. Since our officers and directors are located in Canada, it may be difficult to enforce any U.S. judgment for claims brought against us or our officers and directors. We are organized under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada, our assets are located in Canada and many of our officers and directors are residents of Canada. While a cross border treaty exists between the U.S. and Canada relating to the enforcement of foreign judgments, the process of such is cumbersome and in some cases has prevented the enforcement of judgments. As a result, while actions may be brought in Canada, it may be impossible to affect service of process within the U.S. on our officers and directors or to enforce against these persons any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, a Canadian court may not permit an original action in Canada or enforce in Canada a judgment of a U.S. court based on civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. 11 ITEM 