Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are those risk factors that management believes are most significant to our business and the industry in which we operate. As such, these risk factors do not include risks that affect business generally. If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. Competition from other steel or plastic container manufacturers could significantly impact our profitability, as could an election by our customers to self-manufacture their steel or plastic container requirements. The container industries in which we do business are highly competitive and some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing or other resources than we do. The principal methods of competition in our industry include price, manufacturing capacity, proximity to customers, manufacturing flexibility and quality. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to any of these factors. Competition could force us to reduce our prices or could otherwise result in a loss of market share for our products. In addition, some manufacturers of products that are packaged in steel or plastic containers produce their own steel or plastic containers. The election by some of our existing customers, or potential future customers, to manufacture their steel or plastic containers in-house could significantly impact our profitability. Our customer contracts generally allow our customers to change, and, in some cases, terminate their contracts on short notice. A significant part of our fiscal 2011 sales were made to customers with whom we have contractual relationships. Many of these contracts, most of which are with our larger customers, are requirements contracts under which we supply a percentage of a customer’s requirements for our products over a period of time, without any specific commitment by the customer to purchase a particular unit volume. As such, we are not guaranteed any minimum level of net sales under many of our contracts and many of our customers, including some of our largest customers, are under no obligation to continue to purchase products from us. Moreover, if a customer’s requirements for our products exceed our ability to supply that customer, as has occurred from time to time, we may have a short-term or long-term inability to supply that customer from our own manufacturing facilities and may be required to purchase containers from third parties or take other proactive steps in order to fill that customer’s order. Our inability to supply a customer’s specific requirements from our manufacturing facilities could materially adversely affect our relationship with that customer or increase our operating costs. In addition, many of our requirements contracts with our customers provide that the customer may receive competitive proposals for all or a portion of the products we furnish to the customer under the contract. We generally have the right to retain the customer’s business subject to the terms of the competitive proposal. If we match a competitive proposal, it may result in reduced sales prices for the products that are the subject of the competitive proposal. If we choose not to match a competitive proposal, we may lose the sales that were the subject of the competitive proposal. The loss of a key customer could have a significant negative impact on our sales and profitability. In fiscal 2011, approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales were to our top 10 customers. Sales to our largest customer, The Sherwin-Williams Company, accounted for approximately 13% of our consolidated net 11 Table of Contents sales during fiscal 2011. The loss of, or major reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could create excess capacity within our manufacturing facilities and could result in the erosion of our gross margins and our market share position. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of any such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our officers, employees or directors. Increases in the price of our raw materials or energy supply or interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials could cause our production costs to increase, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively and erode our margins. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our operations, including steel, resin, energy, various inks and coatings. We purchase all required raw materials from outside sources, and consolidate our steel and resin purchases among a select group of suppliers in an effort to leverage purchasing power. As a result, our purchases of both steel and resin are concentrated with a few suppliers and any interruptions in their supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. In addition, the availability and prices of our raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to new laws or regulations. For example, the United States previously imposed tariffs or quotas on imports of certain steel products and steel slabs. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be subject to shortages in supply, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers (including by reason of labor strikes, work stoppages or severe weather at our suppliers’ plants), our inability to leverage our purchasing power as successfully as we have in the past, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Historically, we have generally been able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the price of steel and plastic resin, but we may not be able to do so in the future. We have generally not been able to pass on to our customers any price increases of the other raw materials we utilize in our business. To the extent we are not able to leverage our purchasing power as successfully as we have in the past, we are not able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the prices of raw materials or we experience any interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials, our operating costs could materially increase. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to our energy costs such as natural gas and electricity. For example, an increase in energy prices has a corresponding effect on our production costs. Our revenues or operating costs could be adversely affected by product liability or product recall costs involving our products or products of our customers. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property, based, for example, on alleged product defect. We do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The outcome of pending and future litigation related to the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and/or cash flows. Several leading paint manufacturers are defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits concerning exposure of children to lead-based paint applied thirty or more years ago, including litigation brought by state and local 12 Table of Contents governments alleging that lead pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance requiring, among other types of relief, abatement. This or similar product liability litigation could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of these paint manufacturers, which include several of our paint container customers. To the extent our orders decrease or we are unable to collect receivables from customers due to the effects of product liability litigation on our customers, including the lead-based paint litigation referred to above, our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and/or cash flows could be unfavorably affected. In addition, one of our subsidiaries, Armstrong Containers, Inc. (“Armstrong”), has been named as one of several defendants in several lead-related personal injury cases based upon allegations relating to its alleged corporate predecessor’s products that predated our ownership of Armstrong. The allegations in these cases are similar to those against leading paint manufacturers described above. The plaintiffs in the personal injury cases seek unspecified monetary damages in excess of the statutory minimum for personal injuries due to alleged exposure to lead paint, as well as punitive damages. In the future, there could be additional lead pigment/lead-based paint litigation cases filed against Armstrong (or to which Armstrong could be added as an additional defendant) that assert similar or different claims and seek similar or different types of damages or relief. Litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties. Adverse court rulings, determinations of liability, changes in legislation and administrative regulations, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment/lead-based paint litigation against Armstrong and affect the number and impact the nature of future claims and proceedings. We can neither predict the outcome of existing or future cases that name Armstrong as a defendant due to the uncertainties involved nor can we reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to these matters. We have, therefore, not reserved any amounts in respect of potential payments of damages. Any potential liability determined to be attributable to Armstrong arising out of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of this litigation, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Increased consolidation in our end markets may result in the loss of customers, increased exposure to business risks of larger customers and increased pricing pressure. In several of our end markets, such as paint and related products, there has been increased consolidation through mergers and acquisitions in recent years, and this trend may continue. We may lose customers if they are not the surviving entity in future mergers and acquisitions. In addition, our results of operations would be increasingly sensitive to changes in the business of customers that represent a larger portion of our sales or to any deterioration of these customers’ financial condition. A smaller number of larger customers because of industry consolidation may also exert pressure on us with respect to pricing and payment terms or require us to make changes to our facilities or operations, potentially adversely impacting our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The availability and pricing of steel could be significantly affected by consolidation of key suppliers. The steel industry has experienced consolidation in recent years and further consolidations could result in a decrease in the number of our major suppliers or a decrease in the number of alternative supply sources available to us. In this case, it would be more likely that termination of one or more of our relationships with major suppliers would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as we require a variety of steel raw materials to manufacture our general line metal container products. Consolidation could also result in price increases or unfavorable changes in the payment terms for the raw materials that we purchase. If we were unable to pass the impact of such changes on to our customers, these changes due to supplier consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Decreased sales volume in our end markets due to current economic conditions has impacted our net sales. Despite long-term growth trends in the end markets for our products, we cannot assure you that the end markets for our products will resume growth at historic rates. In addition, the slowdown in the housing market that began in 2007 and spread to the larger economy has resulted in a recent decline in sales volume in our end markets. Our revenues are correlated to the performance of our end markets, especially the home improvement and repair sector, which has recently experienced severe contraction. Decreased demand in our end markets has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as customers have reduced their purchases of our products. Continued contraction in the end markets for our products may also require us to reduce prices or make changes to our operations, such as closing plants or restructuring, and we can give you no assurance that such actions would be successful in improving our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. An increase in the use of alternative packaging as a substitute for the steel and plastic containers we sell could adversely affect our profitability. Our steel and plastic containers are used by our customers to package a diverse range of end-use products. A variety of substitute products are available to package these end-use products, including steel and plastics, and to a lesser extent, composites and flexible packaging containers. From time to time, our customers, including some of our larger customers, have used such alternative methods to package their products. A widespread introduction of alternative packages by our customers or by other companies as a substitute for steel or plastic containers could significantly reduce our sales to our customers. More generally, a decrease in the costs of substitute products, improvements in the performance characteristics of substitute products or the successful development or introduction of new substitute products could significantly reduce our customers’ orders and our profitability. Labor disruptions with that portion of our workforce which is unionized could decrease our profitability. At September 30, 2011, approximately 31% of our hourly employees worked under nine separate collective bargaining agreements. At September 30, 2011, three of the nine collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 20% of the unionized workforce, will become amendable in the 12 months subsequent to September 30, 2011. When these agreements become amendable, we may not be able to negotiate the agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements. In particular, a labor dispute with either of the major unions representing employees in Cincinnati could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce aerosol containers and could result in a deterioration of that business. Our business may be subject to significant environmental, health and safety costs. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety laws, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the handling and disposal of regulated materials and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from the release of regulated materials. In addition, in the course of our operations, we use, store and dispose of hazardous substances. Some of our current and former facilities are currently involved in environmental investigations, remediations and other claims resulting from releases of hazardous substances or the presence of other regulated materials. For example, in fiscal 2008, we received a letter from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stating that corrective action was required at our Homerville, Georgia facility to address certain waste handling and disposal matters. In fiscal 2007, we received a letter from the EPA stating an investigation was required at our Cincinnati, Ohio facility to determine if remedial action was necessary to respond to prior releases of hazardous substances at the site. The releases referenced by EPA occurred prior to our ownership of the site. We are working with the EPA to address 14 Table of Contents its concerns and have notified the former owner of the site, whom we believe has indemnity obligations to us with respect to the EPA’s claim. In addition, in fiscal 2005, we joined a potentially responsible party (PRP) group related to investigation and potential remediation at a waste disposal site in Douglas, Georgia. Our status as a PRP was based on documents indicating that waste materials were transported to the site from our Homerville, Georgia facility prior to our acquisition of the facility in 1989. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial usage for which investigation, remediation obligations could arise in the future and which could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise materially affect the way we operate our business. For further discussion of existing environmental issues relating to us, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Matters.” We may not succeed in our strategy of pursuing or integrating selective acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate and selectively pursue acquisitions. However, we may not be able to locate or acquire suitable acquisition candidates at attractive cash flow multiples consistent with our strategy, and we may not be able to fund future acquisitions because of limitations relating to our indebtedness or otherwise. Successful integration of any acquired business will require significant management and economic resources and could divert our focus from our day-to-day operations. In addition, to the extent that we make any acquisition in the future, our failure to integrate the acquired business successfully could significantly impair our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our business is seasonal, reflecting a general pattern of lower sales and earnings in the metal and plastic packaging industry during the first quarter of our fiscal year. These seasonal patterns cause our quarterly operating results and working capital requirements to fluctuate. Because of such seasonality, financial results for a particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the entire year. For example, in each of the first quarters of fiscal 2011 and 2010 our net sales were approximately 21% of total annual net sales and the difference between net sales and cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) as a percentage of net sales relative to the amount for the full fiscal year was approximately 14% and 21% in the first quarters of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Furthermore, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience variability in our results of operations on a quarterly basis due to fluctuations in raw material prices and our ability to pass on these changes to our customers. If the economy continues to deteriorate and the end markets for our products do not improve, we may experience volatility in our results of operations on a quarterly basis due to non-payment by our customers. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Among other risks we face, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, including, if necessary, to fund a strategic acquisition. In addition, we maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. We expect cash on hand, cash provided by operations and borrowings available under revolving credit facilities to provide sufficient working capital to operate our business, to make expected capital expenditures and to meet foreseeable liquidity requirements, including debt service on our long-term debt, in the next 12 months. We expect to use cash provided by operations in excess of amounts needed for capital expenditures and required debt repayments to reduce our debt, to fund potential acquisitions or for other general corporate purposes. However, 15 Table of Contents we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs in the long term. A continuation of the recent turmoil in the capital and credit markets and the general economic downturn could adversely impact the availability, terms and/or pricing of financing if we need to raise additional liquidity. We would experience liquidity problems if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing as our debt becomes due, or we otherwise need additional liquidity. Adverse economic conditions, increased competition or other unfavorable events also could affect our liquidity. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under our credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. For a discussion of our credit facility, see Note 7, “Long-Term Debt,” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Restrictive covenants in the PIK Notes Indenture (“PIK Notes”), the 2018 Senior Notes Indenture (“2018 Notes”) and our senior secured credit facility could restrict our operating flexibility. The PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture and our senior secured credit facility contain covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries ability to take certain actions. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The indenture contains restrictive covenants that, among other things limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; including distributions to BWAY Parent to make payments in respect of BWAY Parent’s indebtedness, including the PIK Notes; • make other restricted payments or investments; • create liens on assets; create restrictions on payment of dividends or other amounts by us to our restricted subsidiaries; • transfer or sell assets; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and • designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The senior secured credit facility requires BWAY Intermediate to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The senior secured credit facility restricts, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, BWAY Intermediate’s ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or other payments on capital stock; • guarantee other obligations; • grant liens on assets; • make loans, acquisitions or other investments; 16 Table of Contents • dispose of assets; • make optional payments or modify certain debt instruments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • amend organizations documents; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into arrangements that restrict BWAY Holding and its restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; including dividends to BWAY Parent to make payments in respect of BWAY Parent’s indebtedness, including the PIK Notes; • make acquisitions; • change the nature of the business conducted by BWAY Holding and its subsidiaries; • change our fiscal quarter and fiscal year; and • designate its subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, with respect to the Revolver, if any portion of the Revolver is outstanding (other than letters of credit in an amount not to exceed 15% of the total commitment under the Revolver) BWAY Intermediate is required to comply with financial covenants, including a maximum “consolidated total net leverage ratio” (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The failure to comply with such financial covenant would not trigger an event of default with respect to the Term Loan unless 30 days have passed since the revolving lenders could accelerate outstanding obligations under the Revolver and the revolving lenders actually accelerate the obligations under the Revolver by virtue of such breach. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture and the Credit Agreement may be affected by economic conditions and by financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing and sales volume of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under any of the PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture or the Credit Agreement that would permit the holders or applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any applicable redemption premium. In that case, BWAY Intermediate may be unable to make borrowings under the Credit Agreement and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the 2018 Notes and the senior secured credit facility and may not be able to make cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to make payments on the PIK Notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. The PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facility contain cross default or cross acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under those instruments to become immediately due and payable because of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. The PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) contain numerous affirmative and negative covenants and, if any portion of our Revolver is outstanding (other than letters of credit in an amount not to exceed 15% of the total Revolver), the Credit Agreement requires us to meet a maximum “consolidated total net leverage ratio” (as defined in the Credit Agreement), with adjustments set forth in the Credit Agreement. Our failure to comply with the affirmative, 17 Table of Contents negative and financial covenants in the PIK Notes Indenture, the 2018 Notes Indenture and the Credit Agreement and other instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under other instruments (together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees) becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds may not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell our assets and otherwise curtail our operations in order to pay our creditors. These alternative measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows which could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent or otherwise impair BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries’ ability to make cash available to BWAY Parent by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to make payments on the PIK Notes. We may be unable to raise funds necessary to finance the change of control repurchase offers required by the indenture. Under the PIK Notes Indenture, if we experience specific kinds of change of control, we must offer to repurchase the PIK Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the PIK Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. The occurrence of specified events that would constitute a change of control under the Indenture would also constitute a default under the senior secured credit facility that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder and would require BWAY Intermediate to offer to repurchase the 2018 Notes under the 2018 Notes Indenture. In addition, the senior secured credit facility may limit or prohibit the purchase of the PIK Notes by us in the event of a change of control, unless and until the indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility and the 2018 Notes is repaid in full. As a result, following a change of control event, we may not be able to repurchase the PIK Notes unless all indebtedness outstanding under the senior secured credit facility is first repaid and any other indebtedness that contains similar provisions is repaid, or we obtain a waiver from the holders of such indebtedness to provide BWAY Parent with sufficient cash to repurchase the PIK Notes. Any future debt agreements that we enter into may contain similar provisions. BWAY Intermediate may not be able to obtain such a waiver, in which case BWAY Parent may be unable to repay all indebtedness under the PIK Notes. Any requirement to offer to repurchase the PIK Notes may therefore require us to refinance our other outstanding debt, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. BWAY Parent is the sole obligor under the PIK Notes, and BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries will not guarantee BWAY Parent’s obligations under the PIK Notes and do not have any obligation with respect to the PIK Notes. BWAY Parent is a holding company that has no operations of its own and its revenues and cash flow are generated by its subsidiaries. BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the PIK Notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to make distributions to BWAY Parent will depend upon their future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond their control. The PIK Notes will be BWAY Parent’s general unsecured senior obligations, will rank equal in right of payment to any future unsecured indebtedness of BWAY Parent, will be effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness of BWAY Parent to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness and will be structurally subordinated to all of BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities, including BWAY Intermediate’s borrowings under its senior secured credit facilities and its 2018 Notes. The claims of BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ creditors will be required to be paid before the holders of the PIK Notes have a claim (if any) against those entities and their assets. Therefore, if there was a dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any such entity, the holders of the PIK Notes would not receive any amounts with respect to the PIK Notes from the assets of such entity until after the payment in full of the claims of creditors (including preferred stockholders) of such entity. 18 Table of Contents BWAY Parent is a holding company with no independent operations or assets. Repayment of BWAY Parent’s debt, including the PIK Notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries. Restrictions in our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us. BWAY Parent’s only material asset is the capital stock of BWAY Intermediate. Furthermore, BWAY Parent conducts no operations. Accordingly, repayment of BWAY Parent’s indebtedness, including the PIK Notes, is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries are distinct legal entities and they do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the PIK Notes or to make funds available for that purpose or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions or otherwise. BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to BWAY Parent in order to enable BWAY Parent to make payments in respect of its indebtedness, including the PIK Notes. The terms of BWAY Intermediate’s senior secured credit facilities and the 2018 Notes significantly restrict the ability of BWAY Intermediate and its subsidiaries to make distributions to BWAY Parent to pay cash interest or any other payments with respect to the PIK Notes. To fully fund cash interest payments on the PIK Notes for their entire term and the repayment or repurchase of the PIK Notes (for example, upon a specified change of control), BWAY Intermediate would have to obtain amendments to the senior secured credit facilities to permit, or refinance such facility prior to its maturity on terms that permit the necessary distributions to BWAY Parent. We cannot assure you that we will obtain such amendments or be able to refinance the senior secured credit facilities on a timely basis or at all, in which case, BWAY Parent would not be able to make cash interest payments on the PIK Notes or repay or repurchase the PIK Notes. In addition, the restricted payment covenant in the indenture governing the 2018 Notes limits BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us to fund cash interest payments on the PIK Notes or to repay or repurchase the PIK Notes. In addition under certain circumstances, legal restrictions may limit BWAY Parent’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), our subsidiaries may only make dividends (i) out of their “surplus” as defined in the DGCL or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of their net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby. The PIK Notes are structurally subordinated to all of BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness and other liabilities and are effectively subordinated to any of BWAY Parent’s secured indebtedness and if a default occurs, BWAY and its subsidiaries may not be able to make funds available to BWAY Parent by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise and BWAY Parent may not have sufficient funds to fulfill its obligations under the PIK Notes. The PIK Notes are BWAY Parent’s general unsecured senior obligations, rank equal in right of payment to any future unsecured indebtedness of BWAY Parent, are structurally subordinated to all of BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities, including BWAY Intermediate’s borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities and the 2018 Notes, and are effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness of BWAY Parent to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. In the event of the bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up of BWAY or any of its subsidiaries, the holders of the PIK Notes would not receive any amounts with respect to the PIK Notes from the assets of such entity until after the payment in full of the claims of the creditors of such entity. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent BWAY Parent from making payments on the PIK Notes and its other debt obligations. As a result of the Merger, we have a substantial amount of debt. At September 30, 2011, we had $872.0 million of total indebtedness (excluding capital lease obligations of approximately $10.1 million) and approximately 19 Table of Contents $69.8 million of available borrowing capacity under our $75.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, excluding $5.2 million of issued and undrawn letters of credit. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, raw materials, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest on the debt under the Revolver is imposed at variable rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt (including scheduled repayments on our outstanding term loan borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities), thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes, including making cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to make payments on the PIK Notes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • limit our ability to refinance indebtedness or increase the associated costs; • require us to sell assets to reduce debt or influence our decision about whether to do so; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate or prevent us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the PIK Notes and the 2018 Notes Indenture contain restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. At September 30, 2011, based on our borrowing rates and outstanding principal at that time, annual cash interest expense related to the 2018 Notes and the senior secured credit facilities was approximately $43.4 million. At September 30, 2011, we had $508.6 million outstanding subject to variable interest rates. A 1% increase in the floating rates would increase our annual cash interest by approximately $5.1 million. Despite substantial levels of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further intensify the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, including senior debt and debt that will be structurally senior to the PIK Notes. The terms of the indentures governing the PIK Notes and the 2018 Notes Indenture do not fully prohibit us and our subsidiaries from doing so, and the senior secured credit facilities permit additional borrowings. In particular, BWAY Intermediate had approximately $69.8 million available under the Revolver at September 30, 2011 (excluding $5.2 million of issued and undrawn letters of credit) and BWAY Intermediate has the ability to borrow all or a portion of such amount. 20 Table of Contents To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, to repay the Revolver when it matures in 2015 or the PIK Notes when they mature in 2015, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets or operations, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seeking to raise additional capital. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more restrictive covenants which could further restrict our business operations and BWAY Intermediate’s ability to make cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to repay the amounts due under the PIK Notes. Our ability to implement successfully any such alternative financing plans will be dependent on a range of factors, including general economic conditions, the level of activity in mergers and acquisitions and capital markets generally and the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a lien on substantially all of BWAY Intermediate’s and its subsidiaries’ assets, and any successor credit facility is likely to be secured on a similar basis. As such, our ability to refinance the PIK Notes, seek additional financing or BWAY Intermediate’s ability to make cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable Parent to repay the amounts due under the PIK Notes could be impaired as a result of such security interest and the agreements governing such security interests. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations, as well as on BWAY Intermediate’s ability to make cash available to BWAY Parent, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise to enable BWAY Parent to satisfy its obligations on the PIK Notes. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations of the Canadian dollar. In fiscal 2011, approximately 7% of our net sales were in Canadian dollars. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from our Canadian operations and the value of the net assets of our Canadian operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our Canadian operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Translation gains and losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 