D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our business depends on the continued success of our core “Global” brand and our program-specific brands such as “Global Yasi,” “Global Xingxue,” “Global Kids English” and “Global Kids Science,” and if we fail to maintain and enhance recognition of our brands, our ability to attract students and franchisees may be harmed and our business prospects will be adversely affected. We believe that the reputation of and level of market awareness for our “Global” brand has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing this brand and our program-specific brands, including “Global Yasi,” “Global Xingxue,” “Global Kids English” and “Global Kids Science,” are critical to maintaining our competitiveness in attracting students as well as our ability to attract franchisees to join our network. Maintaining and enhancing our brand recognition and reputation depends primarily on the quality and consistency of our courses, service offerings and teachers as well as the success of our marketing and promotion efforts. The geographic diversity of our learning centers and our utilization of franchises to expand our learning center network may limit our ability to ensure consistent quality across our learning centers. While we have devoted significant resources to brand promotion efforts in recent years, we cannot assure you that our ongoing marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand. In addition, our brand image may be harmed by negative publicity, regardless of its veracity, relating to our company or our courses and services. If we are unable to further maintain and enhance our brand recognition and increase market awareness for our courses and service offerings, our ability to attract students and franchisees may be harmed and our business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our key trademarks are still in the process of registration, and we are currently in discussions with the IELTS partners, the entities that organize the IELTS test, regarding the use of the “ ” trademark. If we cannot secure rights to use these trademarks, we may be subject to third party claims and may be forced to discontinue using these marks, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain our brands, cause us to incur litigation costs and divert resources and management attention. 5 We have not obtained trademark registrations for any of our key trademarks, including the “ ” trademark, the Chinese character form of our “Global Yasi” brand, which we have used since 2001. In September 2005, we applied to the PRC Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the PRC Trademark Office, for the registration of “ ” in China for Class 41 (Education Services) under the International Classification of Goods and Services. In March 2010, the PRC Trademark Office granted preliminary approval of our registration, subject to a three-month opposition period. The registration was opposed by, among others, IDP Education Pty Ltd, or IDP, an Australian entity that is one of the IELTS partners. “ ” includes the words “ ,” which is the widely accepted Chinese translation for “IELTS.” In November 2004, IDP applied to register “ ” with the PRC Trademark Office, which application was published for opposition in December 2008. In January 2009, we filed an opposition to IDP’s trademark registration for “ .” Both our opposition and IDP’s opposition are currently pending. From May 2010 to the date of this annual report, we have engaged in active discussions with the IELTS partners with the goal of reaching a mutually acceptable arrangement regarding these trademarks and other intellectual property issues. If we cannot reach an agreement with parties that oppose the trademark registration, there is a risk that litigation may become necessary, which may force us to incur costs and divert resources and management attention or result in our losing the right to use our “Global Yasi” brand. We have attempted to register some of our other key trademarks in China and these registrations are in process. Certain education service providers in China operate test preparation businesses under brands substantially similar or identical to some of our key trademarks and are also applying to register these trademarks, but, to our knowledge, none of their applications have been successful. If our applications for our key trademarks are unsuccessful and a third party is able to register them, we may lose our ability to use our key trademarks and be unable to prevent others from using similar or identical trademarks. Furthermore, a lack of registration or license to legally use the trademarks may subject us to trademark infringement claims for our use of “ ” and other key trademarks. Losing the right to use our key trademarks for any reason or being subject to trademark infringement claims may adversely affect our ability to maintain and protect our brands, cause us to incur litigation costs and divert resources and management attention. If fewer Chinese students choose to study abroad, especially in English-speaking countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and the United States, demand for our courses and other services may decline, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. One of the principal drivers of our business is the increasing demand for English language training and test preparation as a growing number of students choose to study abroad, especially in English-speaking countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and the United States. Restrictive changes in immigration policy, terrorist attacks, geopolitical uncertainties, and international conflicts involving these countries could make it more difficult for Chinese students to obtain visas to study there or decrease the appeal of studying in such countries to Chinese students. For example, the United Kingdom recently announced more stringent standards for granting student visas, including heightened English skill requirements for non-European Union applicants. Additionally, Chinese students may also become less attracted to studying abroad due to other reasons, such as improving domestic educational or employment opportunities. These factors could cause declines in the demand for our test preparation courses, English language training courses and study abroad consulting services, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we are not able to continue to attract new students to enroll in our courses, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. Our ability to continue to attract new students to enroll in our courses is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new programs and enhance existing programs in response to changes in market trends and student demands, expand our educational network while maintaining the quality and consistency of our courses and services, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, and compete effectively against other test preparation service providers. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. If colleges, universities and other higher education institutions reduce their reliance on or acceptance of IELTS, or on admissions and assessment tests in general, we may experience a decrease in demand for our test preparation courses and our revenues may decline. 6 We derive a significant portion of our revenues from test preparation courses, particularly our IELTS preparation courses. The rapid growth of our business has been driven by the growth in the IELTS test preparation market in China, and the future success of our test preparation courses depends on the continued use of IELTS and other admissions and assessment tests. There is competition between IELTS and the Test of English as a Foreign Language, or TOEFL, for acceptance by educational institutions, professional associations and governmental authorities. Historically, IELTS has been the primary test of English proficiency accepted by colleges and universities in the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and other Commonwealth countries, while TOEFL has been the primary test of English proficiency accepted by colleges and universities in the United States. Many colleges and universities in each of these countries now accept both IELTS and TOEFL. Additionally, IELTS scores are required for obtaining certain student and work visas to Australia and to provide conclusive evidence of English proficiency for Canadian immigration purposes. If TOEFL becomes more widely accepted or if IELTS becomes less widely accepted, the market for our IELTS preparation courses may deteriorate and our revenues may decline. Furthermore, if the use of admissions and assessment tests declines within educational institutions and government authorities in any of the main overseas study destinations for which we offer test preparation courses, the markets for our courses targeted at those overseas study destinations may deteriorate and our revenues may decline. If we fail to introduce new courses and service offerings that meet our target customers’ expectations, our competitive position and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our core business has centered on the classroom teaching of IELTS test preparation courses for Chinese students desiring to study abroad. In order to continue to grow our net revenues and student enrollments rapidly in the long term, we will need to continue expanding our course and service offerings. Market demands and trends relevant to our business, including the types of courses and tests most popular among students, effective teaching methods and technologies and the countries that students are most interested in studying in, have evolved rapidly in recent years. We have expanded our course offerings to include other classroom language training and test preparation services, online language training and professional certification test preparation courses, study abroad consulting services and children’s educational programs. To further grow our business, we intend to continue developing new courses and service offerings and explore adopting innovative teaching methods to meet changing customer expectations and to compete with offerings from other market participants. However, unexpected operational, logistical, regulatory or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of the new courses and services or our adoption of new teaching methods. Moreover, if our new courses and service offerings do not match the quality or popularity of those developed by our competitors or achieve widespread market acceptance, we may lose market share and our business prospects could be adversely affected. We face intense competition, and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market share, our revenues and margins may decrease and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The private education sector in China is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and competitive, and we expect competition in this sector to persist and intensify. We face competition for each of our service offerings and in each geographic market in which we operate. For example, we face nationwide competition for our English language test preparation courses from national and local test preparation service providers, including New Oriental Education & Technology Group, which offers test preparation courses in many of the same cities as we do. The market for children’s supplemental private education is highly fragmented, and we face intense competition for our children’s English and science programs from local private schools. Our online learning courses face competition from other online test preparation providers such as China Distance Education Holdings Limited, some of whom specialize in preparation courses for professional certification tests. Our competitiveness depends on a number of factors, including market awareness of our “Global” brand, the breadth and quality of our courses and services, and the scope of our learning center network. However, some of our major competitors have more resources and greater brand recognition than we have, which may hinder our ability to compete effectively against them. In addition, the increasing use of the Internet and advances in Internet- and computer-related technologies, such as web video conferencing and online testing simulators, are eliminating geographic and cost-entry barriers to entering the educational services market. As a result, many of our international competitors that offer online test preparation and language training courses, such as The Princeton Review, Inc. and Kaplan, Inc. may be able to more effectively penetrate the China market over time. In addition, international competitors are beginning to enter the China market through the acquisition of China-based educational service providers. For example, in 2009, Pearson, an international education and information company based in the United Kingdom, acquired Wall Street English, an English language training provider in China. Many of these international competitors have strong education brands, and students and parents in China may be attracted to the offerings of international competitors based in the country that the student wishes to study in or in which the selected language is widely spoken. At the same time, many smaller companies are able to use the Internet to quickly and cost-effectively offer their programs, services and products to a large number of students with less capital expenditure than previously required. 7 If we are unable to maintain our competitive position or otherwise respond to competitive pressures effectively, our student enrollments may decrease, we may lose market share, our revenues and margins may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. Intense competition may also lead to pricing pressure on our courses and other service offerings, which could adversely affect our revenues, margins and profitability. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our learning center network and overall operations may adversely affect our growth, business prospects and results of operations. We have increased the number of our Global test preparation learning centers in China from 70 as of December 31, 2008 to 133 as of December 31, 2010 and the number of our Global Kids English and Global Kids Science learning centers in China from 73 as of December 31, 2008 to 200 as of December 31, 2010. We plan to continue to expand our operations, including increasing the number of our learning centers across many cities in China, including our Global Kids Science and after-school tutoring learning centers. We may be unable to accurately identify geographic locations with sufficient growth potential to expand market reach, and we may fail to attract students and increase student enrollment in these markets. We have grown rapidly in the past, and we may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future. Expansion of our network in cities where we already have a presence may divert students from our existing learning centers and decrease their revenues. In addition, our expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the consistency of our teaching quality and our culture to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decreases, whether actual or perceived, in our teaching quality. In addition, our expansion will require us to operate in unfamiliar localities in China where we may have difficulty adjusting to local market demands and regulatory environments. To manage and support our growth, we must improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified teachers, management personnel and other administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may adversely affect our growth, business prospects and results of operations. A significant majority of our Global test preparation, Global Kids English and Global Kids Science learning centers are franchised, which presents a number of risks, including our limited ability to control franchisees and limited financial ability of franchisees to expand or renovate learning centers. As of December 31, 2010, 79 of our 133 Global test preparation learning centers and 190 of our 200 Global Kids English and Global Kids Science learning centers were franchised. We expect franchised learning centers to continue to represent the majority of our learning centers in the future. While we believe our use of franchised learning centers is an important aspect of our business model, it also presents a number of drawbacks, such as our limited influence over franchisees. In addition, franchisees may have difficulty obtaining the financial resources they need to open new learning centers or improve existing learning center facilities. Our franchisees are independent operators and have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations. We have limited ability to control the quality of their services and employees. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate learning centers in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not adequately hire and train teachers and other learning center personnel. All learning centers are required to follow our detailed operational guidelines, which we update regularly based on proven best practices developed at our directly operated learning centers. Our staff also systematically monitors the quality of franchised learning centers. While we ultimately can take action to terminate franchises that do not comply with our standards, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since most of our Global Kids English and Global Kids Science learning centers are franchised, it may be difficult for us to ensure that our franchisees operate their businesses consistent with our standards. If these franchisees provide diminished quality of service to their customers, our brand, reputation and goodwill may suffer. If a substantial number of our franchisees cannot or will not continue their business relationship with us when their franchise agreements with us expire, our business may suffer. Our franchise agreements generally have terms ranging from one to three years, and our franchisees may not be willing or able to renew their franchise agreements with us. For example, franchisees may decide not to renew due to low sales volumes or high costs, or may be unable to renew due to the failure to secure lease renewals. In order for a franchisee to renew its franchise agreement with us, it typically must pay a franchise fee. If a substantial number of our franchisees cannot or will not renew their franchise agreements with us, the size of our network may decrease, we may be unable to maintain awareness of our brand and we may not be able to successfully execute our expansion strategy. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect from our strategy of acquiring our franchised learning centers. 8 In 2008, we acquired our Chongqing and Chengdu franchises, in the first quarter of 2010 we acquired our Hangzhou, Shenyang and Xi’an franchises, in June 2010 we entered into an agreement to acquire our Dalian franchise and in August 2010 we entered into an agreement to acquire our Wuhan franchise. We plan to continue acquiring successful franchised learning centers on a selective basis in accordance with our expansion strategy. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from these acquisitions may depend on our ability to retain the learning center’s teachers and staff, efficiently integrate its operations, understand the factors contributing to the success of the learning center and continue to adapt to local market dynamics. These acquisitions may not achieve the expected benefits and we may incur impairment of goodwill acquired as a result of these acquisitions. If we are unable to maintain the success that the franchisee previously enjoyed, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects. Moreover, we may fail to negotiate successfully with franchisees and be unable to acquire them at the prices we expect, or at all. Transferring legal title to the schools that operate our franchised learning centers requires government approvals, including the approval of the PRC Ministry of Education or its local counterpart. We have in the past experienced delays in obtaining such approvals. Delays in obtaining or a failure to obtain such approvals may hinder our growth plans and ability to consolidate the revenues of acquired franchises into our results of operations, which may adversely affect our business. For other acquisition-related risks, see “—Acquisitions by us may have an adverse effect on our business operations and profitability and may be dilutive to our existing shareholders.” Acquisitions by us may have an adverse effect on our business operations and profitability and may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition to our strategy of acquiring our franchised learning centers (see “—We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect from our strategy of acquiring our franchised learning centers.”), if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional assets, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect. Acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. In addition to possible shareholders’ approval, we may also have to obtain approvals and licenses from the relevant government authorities in the PRC for the acquisitions and to comply with any applicable PRC laws and regulations, which could result in increased costs and delay. Furthermore, purchase consideration in some of our existing acquisitions have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. For example, in May 2010, we acquired Shanghai Kaiyu Cultural and Business Training Center, or Kaiyu Foreign Languages Center, a language training school based in Shanghai specializing in French and other non-English European languages for aggregate consideration of RMB8.0 million in cash and 536,099 of our ordinary shares. We have paid RMB7.0 million of such consideration. The share portion of the consideration is proportionately refundable through our repurchase of the ordinary shares issued to the seller for par value if Shanghai Kaiyu fails to achieve its pre-determined profit target of RMB8.2 million for the 24-month period following completion of the acquisition as stipulated in the purchase agreements. The ordinary shares issued to the seller are being held in escrow to facilitate the potential refund. These shares are considered contingent share consideration, and until the end of the earnout period for the acquisition, these shares will be recognized as a liability with the change in fair value to be recorded in our earnings. We also have such contingent share consideration in our acquisition of other franchised learning centers, including the Shenyang franchise. In 2010, we recorded a charge of RMB3.9 million ($0.6 million) due to the change in fair value of the contingent consideration payable for our acquisition of our Shenyang franchise. In addition to the impact of contingent share consideration, we may encounter other difficulties with the business we have acquired which would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits and revenue growth from our acquisitions. Failure to adequately and promptly respond to changes in testing materials, admissions standards and technologies could cause our courses and other service offerings to be less attractive to students. Admissions and assessment tests such as IELTS undergo continuous change, in terms of the focus of the subjects and questions tested, the format of the tests and the manner in which the tests are administered. In addition, some admissions and assessment tests are increasingly being offered in a computer-based testing format. These changes require us to continually update and enhance our test preparation materials and our teaching methods. Any inability to track and respond to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner could make our courses and other service offerings less attractive to our customers. If we are not able to continue to hire, train and retain qualified teachers and learning center administrators, we may not be able to maintain consistent teaching quality throughout our learning center network and our brand, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Our teachers and learning center administrators are critical to maintaining the quality of our courses and maintaining our brand and reputation, as they interact with our students on a daily basis. There are a limited number of teachers in the local markets in which we operate with the necessary experience and language proficiency to teach our courses. We also seek to hire committed and dedicated teachers who are capable of delivering high quality instruction. We must continue to attract qualified teachers at a fast pace in order to meet rising student enrollments. We must also provide continuous training to our teachers so that they can stay abreast of changes in student demands, admissions and assessment tests, university admissions standards and other key trends necessary to effectively teach our courses. We may not be able to hire, train and retain enough qualified teachers to keep pace with our anticipated growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality across many different learning centers and programs in different geographic locations. Shortages of qualified teachers or decreases in the quality of our instruction, whether actual or perceived, in one or more of our markets, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, the level of compensation required to hire and retain qualified teachers may in the future reach levels that could materially and adversely affect our profitability and profit margins. If we were to lose the services of our co-founder Yongqi Zhang, our business could be disrupted and our business prospects could be adversely affected. Our co-founder and chief executive officer, Yongqi Zhang, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception. To date, we have relied heavily on his expertise in our business operations, relationships with our employees and business partners, and reputation in the private education industry. In addition, he continues to be primarily responsible for formulating our overall business strategies and spearheading the growth of our operations. If Mr. Zhang becomes unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement and may incur additional expenses to identify and train a successor. In addition, if he joins a competitor or forms a competing business, it could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Mr. Zhang is subject to certain non-competition restrictions during, and for a period of two years after termination of his employment with us, we cannot assure you that such non-competition restrictions will be effective or enforceable under PRC law. Moreover, even if the departure of Mr. Zhang from our company did not have any actual impact on our operations and the growth of our business, it could create the perception among investors or the marketplace that his departure may severely damage our business and operations and negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may cause the market price of our ADSs to go down. We do not maintain key man insurance on Mr. Zhang. System disruptions or security breaches to our computer systems or websites could damage our reputation and require us to expend significant resources. We provide online foreign language training and professional certification test preparation courses through our online platform, and we anticipate that our online offerings will contribute materially to our revenues going forward. The performance, reliability and integrity of our computer systems and websites through which we offer our online courses and disseminate information about our other service offerings and updates are critical to our reputation and ability to retain students and increase student enrollments. Any system error or failure due to a sudden and significant increase in traffic, employee error, computer hackers, other security problems or events beyond our control including natural disasters and telecommunications failures could result in difficulty in accessing our websites by our students, unavailability of our online programs or loss of data. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an Internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. Any interruption to our computer systems or operations could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our ability to retain students and increase student enrollments. We may also incur additional costs to protect and upgrade our computer systems in order to resolve any such disruptions or failures. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly and ineffective. We consider our trademarks, trade names and copyrighted materials important to our ability to continue to develop and enhance our brand recognition. From time to time, our intellectual properties have been used by third parties for or as part of other branded programs, services and products unrelated to us. We have sent cease and desist letters to such third parties in the past and will continue to do so in the future. However, preventing trademark, trade name and other intellectual property infringement, particularly in China, is difficult, costly and time-consuming and continued unauthorized use of our intellectual properties by unrelated third parties may damage our reputation and brand. The measures we take to protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, which presently are based upon a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use by third parties. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights, our brand name may be harmed, and our business may suffer. 10 We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties or held liable for defamation or negligence to third parties for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites, based on the content of the books and reference materials or marketing materials that we author or distribute or for information delivered or shared through our services, which could disrupt our business and cause us to incur substantial legal costs, or damage our reputation. We cannot assure you that our services and products do not or will not infringe any intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past, in the ordinary course of our business, experienced claims for intellectual property infringement, none of which has had a material effect on our business. We may receive claims of infringement of third parties’ proprietary rights or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement arising from our services or products. We may also become subject to claims that content on our websites or in the books and reference materials or marketing materials that we author or distribute is in fact protected by third parties’ copyright ownership rights or trademark. For example, our books and reference materials include sample test questions that are derived from, but not copied from, actual test questions, and if test content owners believe that our sample test questions were copied or if our sample test questions were found to be too similar to actual test questions, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims and may be forced to pay damages. In addition, as a provider of Internet content and other value-added telecommunications services, we may face liability for defamation, negligence and other claims based on the nature and contents of the materials that are displayed on our websites or delivered or shared through our services. We could also be subject to claims based upon content that is accessible on our websites or through our networks, such as content and materials posted by visitors on message boards, online communities, email or chat rooms offered on our websites. By providing hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third-party websites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information distributed by us. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to use the infringed or similar technology or content on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could prevent us from producing and offering our services or products or cause us to incur great expense and delay in developing non-infringing services or products. Any of the above events could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any defamation or negligence claims against us, even if they do not result in liability to us, could cause us to incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility in and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations, primarily due to seasonal changes in student enrollments. Historically, our courses tend to have the highest student enrollments in our third quarter from July to September each year when high schools and universities are on summer holiday and the lowest enrollments in the first quarter from January to March due to the effects of the Chinese New Year holiday. Our expenses, however, vary significantly and do not necessarily correspond with changes in our student enrollments and revenues. We make investments in marketing and promotion, teacher recruitment and training, and product development throughout the year. In addition, other factors beyond our control, such as special events that take place during a quarter when our student enrollment would normally be high, may have a negative impact on our student enrollments. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We generate a majority of our revenues from a limited number of cities in China. Any event negatively affecting overall economic conditions and the education industry in these cities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently generate a majority of our revenues in Beijing and Shanghai, which accounted for 48.2% and 15.4%, respectively, of our total net revenues in 2010. We expect these cities to continue to constitute important sources of our revenues. If any of these cities experiences an event negatively affecting its education industry, such as a serious economic downturn, a natural disaster or an outbreak of contagious disease, or if any of these cities adopts regulations relating to education that place additional restrictions or burdens on us, our overall business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to adverse public health developments in China, which could result in reduced attendance or temporary closure of our learning centers. 11 Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a severe outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other epidemic. In recent years, China has experienced a number of major health scares, including the 2003 outbreak of SARS, which caused significant disruption to economic activity and a significant drop in our student enrollments, and the 2009 outbreak of type A H1N1 influenza, commonly known as swine flu. In early June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of swine flu a pandemic. Any outbreak of avian influenza, SARS, swine flu, or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. These occurrences could require the temporary closure of our learning centers, which would disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not have adequate insurance coverage, and a liability claim against us due to injuries suffered by our students or other people at our facilities could adversely affect our reputation and our profitability and be disruptive to our business. We currently do not have any business disruption insurance. For certain of our summer/winter camps and enclosed campuses, we have purchased personal injury liability insurance. We could be held liable for accidents that occur at our learning centers, office space and other facilities, including indoor facilities where we organize educational activities and temporary housing facilities that we lease for our students from time to time. In the event of on-site personal injuries, fires or other accidents suffered by students or other people, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or were otherwise liable for the injuries. A successful liability claim against us due to injuries suffered by our students or other people at our facilities could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause unfavorable publicity, require substantial cost to defend and divert the time and attention of our management. In addition, any outbreak of fire or similar calamities at our premises may result in the breakdown of our facilities and disruption of our business against which we are not insured. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are a public company in the United States that will be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of these companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of public companies’ internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to us beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective due to our failure to cure the identified material weakness and significant deficiency or otherwise. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may not conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify other deficiencies and weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the SEC for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In the course of auditing our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one material weakness and one significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of sufficient accounting personnel with appropriate U.S. GAAP knowledge. The significant deficiency relates to our closing procedures and accounting manual, which required improvement to facilitate preparation of financial statements under U.S. GAAP for financial reporting processes. 12 We are taking steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, including but not limited to: (1) hiring additional accounting personnel with appropriate U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting experience, (2) providing further training to our finance staff to enhance their understanding of our policies and procedures, and (3) engaging external consultant to provide advice on our plan to enhance our controls and procedures over financial reporting. However, the implementation of these initiatives may not fully address the material weakness and significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the process of designing and implementing an effective financial reporting system is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a financial reporting system that is adequate in satisfying our reporting obligations. Our failure to cure the material weakness and significant deficiency or our failure to discover and address any other weaknesses or deficiencies may result in inaccuracies in our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP or delay in preparing our financial statements. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, may be materially and adversely affected. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which our ADSs are listed, regulatory investigations or civil or criminal sanctions. Compliance with rules and requirements applicable to public companies may cause us to incur increased costs. As a U.S. public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of U.S. public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, to meet the deadline for compliance with the Section 404 requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have taken and will continue to take measures to remediate the control deficiencies that we have identified. These remedial measures, including hiring consultants and additional qualified personnel and upgrading our financial accounting infrastructure and information systems, are costly. Furthermore, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these requirements, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Risk Factors Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Regulation of Our Industry If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our education and online businesses in China do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entity that invests in the education or Internet content provision businesses in China to be an educational institution with relevant experience in providing educational services outside China. Our Cayman Islands holding company is not an educational institution and does not provide educational services. In addition, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% equity interest in any entity conducting Internet content provision or distribution business in China. Accordingly, our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, Beijing Global Education and Shanghai Global Elite, may not provide educational or Internet content provision services in China. As a result, we conduct our education and online businesses in China through contractual arrangements with Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries and shareholders. Shanghai Global Career is our consolidated affiliated entity directly operated by our founders. Shanghai Global Career’s subsidiaries hold the requisite material licenses and permits necessary to conduct our education and online businesses and operate our learning centers in China. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries to operate our education business until we qualify for and assume direct ownership of educational businesses in China. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries pursuant to which we, through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, provide technical and business support and market development consulting services to Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries in exchange for payments from them. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Shanghai Global Career and each of the shareholders of Shanghai Global Career that provide us with substantial control over Shanghai Global Career and its existing and future subsidiaries. If we, any of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Shanghai Global Career or any of its existing and future subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities including the Ministry of Education, which regulates the education industry, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, which regulates Internet content providers, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of any related-party transactions among our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; 13 • imposing fines or other requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our public offering to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries and shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries and shareholders to operate our education business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Corporate History and Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Shanghai Global Career and Its Shareholders.” These contractual arrangements through which we exercise control over Shanghai Global Career and its shareholders and from which we obtain substantially all of our revenues, may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries. If Shanghai Global Career or any of its shareholders fails to perform its respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance, injunctive relief or and claiming damages, which may not be effective. The shareholders of Shanghai Global Career may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our ability to operate the business controlled by Shanghai Global Career. The shareholders of Shanghai Global Career, Yongqi Zhang and Xiaodong Zhang, are also the founders, beneficial owners and directors of our company. Xiaodong Zhang is the sole director of Shanghai Global Career. Conflicts of interest between their dual roles as beneficial owners and directors of both Shanghai Global Career and our company may arise. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In the event of any such conflicts of interest, these individuals may breach or cause Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control and receive economic benefits from Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Shanghai Global Career and its subsidiaries may be subject to significant limitations on their ability to operate private schools or make payments to related parties or otherwise be materially and adversely affected by changes in PRC laws and regulations. The principal regulations governing private education in China are The Law for Promoting Private Education (2003) and The Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education (2004). Under these regulations, a private school may elect to be a school that does not require reasonable returns or a school that requires reasonable returns. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulations—Regulations on Private Education.” At the end of each fiscal year, every private school is required to allocate a certain amount to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of the school or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment. In the case of a private school that requires reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of the annual net income of the school, while in the case of a private school that does not require reasonable returns, this amount shall be equivalent to no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, if any. A private school that requires reasonable returns must publicly disclose such election and additional information required under the regulations. A private school shall consider factors such as the school’s tuition, ratio of the funds used for education-related activities to the course fees collected, admission standards and education quality when determining the percentage of the school’s net income that would be distributed to the investors as reasonable returns. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining “reasonable returns.” In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth different requirements or restrictions on a private school’s ability to operate its education business based on such school’s status as a school that requires reasonable returns or a school that does not require reasonable returns. In some cities, our learning centers are administered by schools registered in a category that requires reasonable returns, while in other cities, our learning centers are administered by schools registered in a category that does not require reasonable returns. The current PRC laws and regulations governing private education may be amended or replaced by new laws and regulations that (i) impose significant limitations on the ability of our learning centers to operate their business, charge course fees or make payments to related parties for services received, (ii) specify the formula for calculating “reasonable returns,” or (iii) change the preferential tax treatment policies applicable to private schools. We cannot predict the timing and effects of any such amendments or new laws and regulations. Changes in PRC laws and regulations governing private education or otherwise affecting Shanghai Global Career’s and its subsidiaries’ operations could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. 14 Our contractual arrangements with Shanghai Global Career may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or Shanghai Global Career owe additional taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our PRC wholly owned subsidiaries and Shanghai Global Career do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust the income of our PRC wholly owned subsidiaries or Shanghai Global Career in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Shanghai Global Career, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated financial position and net income may be materially and adversely affected if our affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Because we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, restrictions under PRC law on their ability to make such payments could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We have adopted a holding company structure, and our holding companies rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future PRC subsidiaries for their cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt they may incur or payment of dividends to our shareholders. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to statutory reserves each year until such reserves reach 50% of the company’s registered capital. The total registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries was RMB264.6 million ($40.1 million) as of December 31, 2010. In addition, pursuant to applicable regulations, each year our schools are required to allocate no less than 25% of the annual net income, or for certain schools no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, to its statutorily required development fund. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Our aggregate allocations to our PRC subsidiaries’ statutory surplus funds were RMB5.2 million, RMB6.2 million and RMB7.3 million ($1.1 million) in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our aggregate allocations to the statutorily required development funds of our schools was RMB0.5 million, RMB1.6 million and RMB1.5 million ($0.2 million) in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities and limit the use of such funds, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities, we may fund our onshore operations through additional investments, in the form of capital contributions, to our PRC subsidiaries or through loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment and the type of business in which a foreign-invested enterprise is engaged, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated PRC affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • Loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries that are directly invested by us, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed the statutory limit, which is the difference between the total investment amount and the registered capital of the foreign-invested enterprise. The total investment amount and registered capital of Beijing Global Education, approved by the local counterpart of the Ministry of Commerce, are $25.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively, and thus Beijing Global Education may receive a shareholder loan of up to $5.0 million. Shanghai Global Elite cannot currently receive a shareholder loan as both its total investment amount and registered capital are $7.0 million. Any such loans must also be submitted for registration with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterpart within 15 days from the date on which the relevant loan agreement was executed, and SAFE should complete such registration within 20 working days from the date on which it receives all of the application materials. • Loans by us to Shanghai Global Career or its subsidiaries, which are domestic PRC entities, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. 15 We may be unable to obtain these registrations or government approvals on a timely basis with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulations—Regulations on Foreign Exchange—Regulations on Loans to and Direct Investment in the PRC Entities by Offshore Holding Companies.” If we are unable to obtain these government registrations and approvals on a timely basis with respect to the capital contributions by us to Beijing Global Education and Shanghai Global Elite, our wholly owned subsidiaries, our ability to capitalize our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Furthermore, under the “Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning Administration Improvement of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises,” or Circular No. 142, promulgated by SAFE on August 20, 2008, Renminbi converted from foreign exchange capital contributions can only be used for activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment unless otherwise approved by SAFE or its local counterparts. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries that are foreign-invested enterprises may not be able to use the foreign exchange capital contributed by us for equity investment or acquisitions in China. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and reputation and subject us to liability for information displayed on our websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content and other licenses, and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the websites. If any of our websites, including those used for our online education business, are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be penalized by relevant authorities, and our operations or reputation could be adversely affected. Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation and application of the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. If the governmental authorities decide that our provision of online education services fall within the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures and we are unable to register or obtain the necessary license timely, or at all, our equity ownership structure may require restructuring, or we may become subject to penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, promulgated the Rules for Administration of Broadcasting of Audio-Video Programs through the Internet and Other Information Networks, or the Broadcasting Rules, in 2004, which became effective on October 11, 2004. The Broadcasting Rules apply to the activities of broadcasting, integration, transmission and downloading of audio-video programs with computers, televisions or mobile phones as the main terminals and through various types of information networks. Pursuant to the Broadcasting Rules, a Permit for Broadcasting Audio-Video Programs via Information Network is required to engage in these Internet broadcasting activities. On April 13, 2005, the State Council announced a policy on private investments in businesses in China that relate to cultural matters, which prohibits private investments in businesses relating to the dissemination of audio-video programs through information networks. On December 20, 2007, SARFT and MIIT issued the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that no entities or individuals may provide Internet audio-video program services without a License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network issued by SARFT or its local counterparts or completing the relevant registration with SARFT or its local counterparts and only entities wholly owned or controlled by the PRC government may engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transfer to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, and the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. There are significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in particular, the scope of “Internet Audio-Video Programs.” Further, on April 1, 2010, SARFT promulgated the Tentative Categories of Internet Audio-Visual Program Service, or the Categories, which clarified the scope of Internet audio-video programs. According to the Categories, there are four categories of internet audio-visual program service which include seventeen sub-categories. The third sub-category of the second category covers the making and broadcasting of certain specialized audio-visual programs concerning art, culture, technology, entertainment, finance, sports, and education to the public. We transmit our audio-video educational courses and programs through the Internet only to enrolled course participants, not to the general public. In addition, we do not provide audio-video program uploading and transmission services. Thus we believe that we are not subject to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. However, there is no further official interpretation of these definitions, especially the scope of “Internet audio-video program service.” If the governmental authorities decide that our provision of online education services fall within the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, we may not be able to obtain the necessary license timely, or at all. If this occurs, we may become subject to penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content. 16 Risk Factors Relating to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic and political policies and circumstances could adversely affect China’s overall economy and our business. As substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China, changes to the economic and political conditions in China could have a significant effect on our business. A significant downturn in the PRC economy could reduce demand for private education services, including demand for our courses and other service offerings. Although the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over the PRC economy through, among other things, direct and indirect allocation of resources and capital, foreign exchange controls, taxation policies and providing preferential treatment to particular industries. From 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the deposit reserve ratio requirements for banks and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, designed to slow the growth of the PRC economy. In response to the global financial crisis, in 2008 the PRC government began instituting policies aimed at expanding credit and stimulating the economy, including an announced RMB4 trillion stimulus spending program. More recently, as the PRC economy has shown signs of recovering quickly from the global financial crisis, the PRC government has again begun implementing policies aimed at slowing the PRC economy, including raising interest rates and tightening fiscal expenditures. Such policies, along with other factors that could adversely affect the PRC economy, including any further slowdown in the economies of countries with which China has significant economic relations, may lead to a slowdown in the PRC economy. Moreover, as China’s economy matures, its economic growth rate may slow. Any significant slowdown in the PRC economy could materially and adversely affect our operating results and business prospects. In addition, China’s social and political conditions are not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries, and China has contentious relations with some of its neighbors, most notably Taiwan. Any sudden changes in China’s political system, the occurrence of widespread social unrest, or a significant deterioration in its relations with its neighbors, could negatively affect the PRC economy and our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Unlike common law systems, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Beijing Global Education and Shanghai Global Elite, are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, and both are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. Beijing Global Education, Shanghai Global Elite and our PRC affiliated entity, Shanghai Global Career, and its subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic PRC companies. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts and intellectual property rights, could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. For example, in December 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued a circular, commonly referred to as Circular 698, to strengthen the PRC tax authorities’ scrutiny over any indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC tax resident enterprise by a non PRC-resident enterprise, which became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Circular 698 specifies that, by adopting the “substance over form” principle, the State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an indirect equity transfer, disregard the existence of an offshore intermediary holding company if it lacks business objectives and was established for the purpose of avoiding tax, and impose PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10% to gains derived from such indirect transfer. Although several issues related to Circular 698 were clarified through the Public Notice dated March 28, 2011 by the State Administration of Taxation, there is little guidance and practical experience regarding the application of this tax circular. In recent cases, some intermediary holding companies were actually looked through by the PRC tax authorities, consequently, the non PRC resident investors were deemed to have transferred the PRC subsidiaries and assessed PRC corporate taxes. In view of the above, in case there are any indirect transfers of PRC tax resident enterprise’s equity by non PRC resident investors deemed by PRC tax authorities as under Circular 698, we may be required to report to and assist PRC tax authorities with respect to such indirect transfers and may be required to spend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698. We may not become aware of our violation of such governmental policies and rules with retroactive application until some time after the potential violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention 17 PRC government restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi may limit our ability to effectively utilize our revenues and funds. Restrictions on currency exchanges between Renminbi and other currencies may limit our ability to utilize our revenues and funds, in particular in relation to capital account transactions such as investments and loans. Under current PRC regulations, Renminbi is convertible for “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services. Although the Renminbi has been fully convertible for current account transactions since 1996, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally include investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiary and affiliated PRC operating companies to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. A failure by the beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC residents to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and subject us to liability under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including Circular No. 75 issued in November 2005 and implementation rules issued in May 2007, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents. These regulations require registration of direct or indirect investments made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We are committed to complying, and to ensuring that our shareholders, who are PRC citizens or residents, comply with the SAFE Circular 75 requirements. We believe that all of our PRC citizen or resident shareholders and beneficial owners have completed their required registrations with SAFE, or are otherwise in the process of registering. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with the SAFE Circular 75 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, SAFE Circular 75 or other related regulations. Failure by any such shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE Circular 75 could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our assets are, and the net proceeds from our initial public offering are, denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power in Renminbi terms of our U.S. dollar assets and the proceeds from our initial public offering. As the functional currency for our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entity is the Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate may also cause us to incur foreign exchange losses on any foreign currency holdings they may have. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. However, the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rates and achieve policy goals. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. From mid-2008 to mid-2010 the Renminbi traded within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar at approximately RMB6.83 per U.S. dollar. In June 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced the removal of the de facto peg. Following this announcement, the Renminbi has appreciated modestly. It is difficult to predict when and how Renminbi exchange rates may change going forward. 18 The increase in the PRC enterprise income tax and the discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us could result in a decrease of our net income and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to January 1, 2008, under applicable PRC tax laws, companies established in China were generally subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the statutory rate of 33%. However, certain types of foreign-invested enterprises and high or new-technology enterprises located in certain specified high-tech zones were entitled to preferential tax treatments. Our wholly owned subsidiary in China Beijing Global Education was a certified “new technology enterprise” established in a high-tech zone, and was entitled to a three-year EIT exemption for the period from 2007 to 2009, and a 50% EIT rate reduction for another three years. In addition, Shanghai Global Career, as a newly established company engaged in education, was granted an EIT exemption in 2007. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and in December 2007, the State Council promulgated the implementing rules of the New EIT Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under the previous tax law. The New EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of EIT from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Under the phase-out rules, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Beijing Global Education is an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law, will continue to enjoy its preferential treatment under the phase-out rules. In addition, the New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises”, or HNTEs, to enjoy a reduced EIT rate of 15%. The qualification criteria are significantly higher than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. Beijing Global Education obtained the qualification certificate of HNTE under the New EIT Law on December 24, 2008 with a valid period of three years starting from calendar year 2008 to 2010. It is currently applying for an additional three year extension of the preferential tax treatment for HNTE. In addition, according to a tax circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 21, 2010, or Circular 157, where a resident enterprise is qualified as a HNTE, and simultaneously is entitled to a term holiday under the phase-out rules under the New EIT Law, the resident enterprise can choose either to enjoy the term holiday based on the phase-out EIT rates (i.e., 18% for 2008, 20% for 2009, 22% for 2010, 24% for 2011 and 25% for 2012 and onwards) or enjoy the preferential EIT rate of 15% as a HNTE. However, Beijing Global Education has obtained an approval from the Haidian State Tax Bureau in 2009 which granted a two-year EIT exemption for 2008 and 2009 and a 50% EIT rate reduction based on the then prevailing rate of 15%, i.e., 7.5%, for 2010. Therefore, instead of following Circular 157 and choosing between the 50% rate reduction on the phase-out EIT rates and the applicable EIT rate of 15% for a HNTE, Beijing Global Education has confirmed with Beijing Haidian State Tax Bureau to apply the EIT rate of 7.5% as stated in the approval issued by Beijing Haidian State Tax Bureau as its applicable tax rate for 2010 for EIT purposes despite of relevant provisions in Circular 157. In addition, according to Beijing Global Education’s confirmation with Beijing Haidian State Tax Bureau, Beijing Global Education may be allowed to continue to use this 7.5% EIT rate for 2011 and 2012 if it could be qualified as a HNTE in these two years. However, the 7.5% EIT rate for Beijing Global Education for years of 2010 to 2012 may not be accepted by the PRC tax authorities in the future, in which case Beijing Global Education may choose either the 50% rate reduction on the phase-out EIT rates (i.e., 11%, 12% and 12.5%) or the applicable EIT rate of 15% for HNTEs for 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We cannot assure you, however, that Beijing Global Education will continue to qualify as a HNTE or enjoy the preferential treatments under the phase-out rules, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation or revocation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. According to The Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education (2004), private schools that do not require reasonable returns enjoy the same preferential tax treatment as public schools, while the preferential tax treatment policies applicable to private schools requiring reasonable returns shall be separately formulated by the relevant authorities under the State Council. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law provide certain conditions under which not-for-profit entities may be exempted from EIT. According to such conditions, our learning centers may not be entitled to EIT exemption. To date, however, no separate specific regulations or policies have been promulgated by the relevant authorities in this regard and whether our learning centers can be entitled to any preferential EIT treatment remains unclear. In practice, tax treatments for private schools vary across different cities in China. In some cities, private schools are subject to a 25% standard EIT starting from January 1, 2008, while in other cities, private schools are subject to a 2% to 3% tax on gross receipts in lieu of the 25% standard EIT rate or may be exempted from EIT. Some of our PRC subsidiaries and other affiliated entities enjoy certain similar tax treatments. Currently, Tianjin School, Shenyang School, Wuxi Global and Suzhou Global are subject to EIT at a rate ranging from 2.5% to 5% on their gross receipts. Preferential tax treatments granted to us by local governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us, especially those learning centers in major cities, will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which will increase our income tax expenses and in turn decrease our net income. We may be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes under the New EIT Law. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders. 19 Under the New EIT Law, enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management body” is located in China are considered “resident enterprises,” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate for their global income. Although the term “de facto management body” is defined as “management body which has substantial and overall management and control power on the operation, human resources, accounting and assets of the enterprise,” the circumstances under which an enterprise’s “de facto management body” would be considered to be located in China are currently unclear. A circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management body” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) at least half of the enterprise’s senior management or directors with voting rights reside in the PRC. Our management is currently based in China and is expected to remain in China. Although our offshore holding companies are not controlled by any PRC company or company group, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC EIT at the rate of 25% on our global income. In that case, however, dividend income we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from PRC EIT because the New EIT Law and its implementation rules generally provide that dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from its directly invested entity that is also a PRC resident enterprise is exempt from EIT. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the New EIT Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC EIT exemptions and such dividends will not be subject to EIT. In addition, the New EIT Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, dividends distributed to our non-PRC entity investors by us, or the gain our non-PRC entity investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax pursuant to the New EIT Law and, as a result, the value of your investment may be materially and adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our ADSs Our ADS price and the ADS or stock prices of other companies with business operations primarily in China have fluctuated widely in recent years, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between January 1, 2011 and May 31, 2011, our ADS price as reported on Nasdaq ranged between a low of $5.16 and a high of $10.47. Numerous factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ADSs to fluctuate significantly. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other education and technology companies with business operations mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. In recent years, a number of Chinese companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards Chinese companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our ADSs has been substantially less liquid than the ADSs or stock of many companies quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Although our ADSs are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume of our ADSs has generally been low. Reported average daily trading volume in our ADSs for the three-month period ended May 31, 2011 was approximately 50,000 ADSs. Limited trading volume will subject our ADSs to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their ADSs at a price that is attractive to them. 20 A significant majority of our outstanding ordinary shares is held by a small number of our existing shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. Our co-founders Xiaodong Zhang and Yongqi Zhang, who are husband and wife and serve as our chairman and chief executive officer, respectively, currently beneficially own 45,000,000 ordinary shares, or approximately 42.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. SB Asia Investment Fund II, L.P., or SAIF, beneficially owns 27,949,166 ordinary shares, or approximately 26.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These major shareholders will continue to have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They may not act in the best interests of our minority shareholders. In addition, without the consent of these major Shareholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents are sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of June 17 2011, we have 105,246,529 ordinary shares outstanding, including 29,325,000 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. Subject to the applicable restrictions and limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, all of our shares outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market. In addition, as of June 17, 2011, there are 6,761,607 outstanding options to purchase ordinary shares, 2,944,775 of which have been vested under their current terms. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. We will endeavor to provide the depositary with written notice of each meeting of shareholders promptly after determining the date of such meeting. We anticipate that the 35 days’ notice required for annual general meetings will provide sufficient time for the depositary to solicit voting instructions while providing ADS holders with a reasonable amount of time to provide voting instructions. However, there is no guarantee that you will receive voting materials in time, in particular for extraordinary meetings, which may be called on as short as ten days’ notice, to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon receipt of notice of a shareholders meeting from us, the depositary will distribute to registered holders of ADSs a notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given (i) with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary (and we agree to provide such information promptly in writing when and if applicable) that (x) we do not wish such proxy to be given, (y) substantial opposition exists with respect to any agenda item for which the proxy would be given or (z) materially affects the rights of holders of shares and (ii) unless, with respect to such meeting, the depositary has been provided with an opinion of counsel to us, in form and substance satisfactory to the depositary. 21 You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcing court judgments obtained against us or any of our directors or management. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws of the United States or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind in the United States, the respective laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts, and therefore PRC courts have discretion not to enforce judgments of U.S. courts. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2009 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. For example: • Our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association permit only a majority of the board or the chairman of the board to call extraordinary general meetings. There is no provision in the second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association whereby a shareholder can propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings. 22 • Our board is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred shares and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching to those shares. This can be effected without the approval of shareholders and may be used to thwart any potential buyer who wishes to acquire control of us. • Our directors are divided into three different classes. At each annual general meeting after the adoption of our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, one class shall retire from office by rotation and be eligible for re-election. With a staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, would generally be required to effect a change in a majority of the board. A staggered board tends to discourage proxy contests for the election of directors and purchases of a substantial block of shares because a staggered board operates to prevent a third party from obtaining control of our board in a relatively short period of time. See “Item 6.C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices—Terms of Directors and Executive Officers.” These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. We believe that we were not a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. However, PFIC status is tested each year and depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets from time to time. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets and, since the value of our assets is determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate over time, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for 2011 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. See “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 