Item 1A. Risk Factors.Prospective investors in the Company’s common stock should carefully consider the following risk factors.◦Recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States' subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return to recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity and financial condition. ◦The Bank’s level of nonperforming loans and classified assets may require the Bank to increase the provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional losses in the future. Further, the allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the Bank’s loan portfolio. For 2012, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.9 million compared to a provision for loan losses of $1.6 million in 2011. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.5 million in 2012 compared to net loan charge-offs of 37Table of Contents$1.4 million in 2011. Our nonperforming assets and troubled debt restructurings decreased to $12.8 million, or 1.34% of total assets, at December 31, 2012 from $16.2 million, or 1.69% of total assets, at December 31, 2011. Additionally, at December 31, 2012, loans that were classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $29.7 million, representing 4.3% of total loans, including nonperforming loans of $7.7 million, representing 1.11% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken, more of our classified loans may become nonperforming and we could experience loan losses or be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management’s best estimate of known losses in the portfolio based upon management’s evaluation of the portfolio’s collectibility as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses totaled $6.4 million, which represented 0.93% of total loans and 83.45% of nonperforming loans. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge-off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.◦The Bank’s commercial lending exposes us to lending risks. At December 31, 2012, $415.5 million, or 60.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. We intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike one- to four-family real estate loans or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value.◦The Bank’s emphasis on residential mortgage loans and home equity loans exposes it to lending risks, 38Table of Contentsespecially due to declining real estate values. At December 31, 2012, $230.7 million, or 33.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and $28.4 million, or 4.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.◦The Company’s investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns, material losses or other-than-temporary impairment losses. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an issuer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.Our investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur.Because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income, and we could recognize investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.Additionally, we review our securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. We are required to write-down the value of that security through a charge to earnings if we conclude that the decline is other-than-temporary. In the case of debt securities, we are required to charge to earnings any decreases in value that are credit-related. As of December 31, 2012, the amortized cost and the fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $173.9 million and $176.5 million, respectively. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in a charge to earnings to write-down these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses on certain debt securities related to credit-related factors totaling $123,000 and $148,000, respectively.◦A significant percentage of our assets are invested in securities, which typically have a lower yield than our loan portfolio. Our results of operations are substantially dependent on our net interest income. At December 31, 2012, 18.5% of our assets were invested in available for sale securities. These investments yield substantially less than the loans we hold in our portfolio. While we intend to invest a greater proportion of our assets in loans with the goal of increasing our net interest income, we may not be able to increase the origination or purchase of loans acceptable to us.◦Regulatory reform may have a material impact on the Company’s operations. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS, our former regulator, merged into the OCC, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, are now regulated by the FRB. Also included was the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was previously performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions was reduced as well and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally-chartered institution, such as the Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposed consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, 39Table of Contentswhich will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs.In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the current economic crisis. These actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If the Company or the Bank were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on their ability to execute their business plans, as well as their ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in their operations. See Item 1. Business. “Regulation and Supervision” for a discussion of regulatory capital requirements.Additionally, on August 30, 2012, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued proposed rules that would implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. If adopted as proposed, Basel III and regulations proposed by the federal banking regulatory agencies will require holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules, which are still being analyzed, will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies.◦Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce the Company’s profitability and affect the value of its assets.Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage- backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our 40Table of Contentsborrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities, our profitability could be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates.◦The Company’s cost of operations is high relative to its assets. The Company’s failure to maintain or reduce its operating expenses could hurt its profits. Our noninterest expenses totaled $30.7 million and $32.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We continue to analyze our expenses and achieve efficiencies where available. Although we strive to generate increases in both net interest income and noninterest income, our efficiency ratio remains high as a result of operating expenses. Our efficiency ratio totaled 88.19% and 87.54% for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Failure to control or maintain our expenses could hurt future profits.◦Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt its profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2012, we held approximately 1.63% of the deposits in Hartford, Middlesex, New London, Tolland and Windham counties in Connecticut, which represented the 12th market share of deposits out of 37 financial institutions in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.◦The Company is subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits and FHLB advances are our primary sources of funding. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to renew FHLB advances, an inability to obtain alternative funding to core deposits or FHLB advances, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition.◦Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt the Company’s earnings. The economic recession caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $393,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $3.5 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings.◦If the goodwill recorded in connection with the Company’s acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. Applicable accounting standards require that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under this method, if the purchase price of an acquired entity exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2012, we had $3.5 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if 41Table of Contentsevents or changes in circumstances warrant such evaluation. Our annual review of our goodwill occurs in November. Write-downs of the amount of impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to income in the period in which the impairment occurs. No goodwill impairment was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2012 or 2011. Future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.◦The Company is subject to security and operational risks relating to use of its technology that could damage its reputation and business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.