D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Our high customer concentration exposes us to all of the risks faced by our major customers and may subject us to significant fluctuations or declines in revenue. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, which are primarily Chinese national or regional large electric power producers, including the five largest state-owned power producers. In the year ended December 31, 2011, our top three customers in terms of revenue recognized, namely China Huaneng Group, or Huaneng, China Datang Corporation, or China Datang, and China Huadian Corporation, or Huadian, together with their respective affiliates, contributed approximately 44.0%, 25.8% and 7.6% of our total revenue, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2012, our top three customers in terms of revenue recognized, namely Huadian, Daqing Longjiang Wind Power Generating Co. Ltd., or Daqing Longjiang, and Huaneng, together with their affiliates, contributed approximately 27.9%, 11.1% and 10.4% of our total revenue, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2013, our top three customers in terms of revenue recognized, Huaneng, Da’an Runfeng Energy Development Ltd. and Shanghai Chengrui Investment Ltd., together with their affiliates, contributed approximately 22.1%, 10.3% and 8.3% of our total revenue, respectively. Since our inception in June 2006 through December 31, 2013, we had entered into sales contracts for a total of 4,804 units of wind turbines with 45 end customers. Huaneng, our largest customer in terms of total power output, together with its affiliates, accounted for 1,094 units of wind turbines contracted as of December 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with these customers, or that we will be able to continue to supply products to these customers at current levels or at all. Dependence on a few significant customers will continue to make it difficult for us to satisfactorily negotiate attractive prices for our products and will continue to expose us to the risks of substantial losses if a single, dominant customer stops conducting business with us. Specifically, any one of the following events, among others, may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenue and have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects: • reduction of the number or in the price of wind turbines purchased from us by one or more of our significant customers; • reduction, delay or cancellation of wind farm projects to be or being developed by our customers, due to intense competition in the wind power industry, general decline in the economy or otherwise, which could lead to a decline in wind turbines purchased by our customers; • the decision by one or more of our significant customers to select one or more of our competitors to supply wind turbines; • the loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify and obtain additional or replacement customers that can replace the lost sales volume at satisfactory pricing or other terms; or • the failure or inability of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products and services. These factors may result in a lack of certainty and predictability about our sales, which may fluctuate unpredictably depending on customer demand and orders. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, but instead, wind turbine sales contracts for particular wind farm projects. As a result, we are subject to the negotiation of pricing and other terms on a project-by-project basis. Therefore, the contract selling prices that we are able to agree on with our customers are subject to fluctuation and uncertainty. We cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue to improve or if these customers will continue to generate significant revenue for us in the future. Any failure to maintain our existing customer relationships or to expand our customer base will materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding trade receivables is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Our largest and the second largest trade receivable balance (after allowance for doubtful debts) were due to us from Huaneng and China Datang, respectively, in the amount of RMB1,032.9 million (US$170.6 million) and RMB623.0 million (US$102.9 million), respectively, representing approximately 24.3% and 14.7%, respectively, of the total trade receivables as of December 31, 2013. The failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business prospects highly depend on the acceptance and marketability of our new wind turbines utilizing the SCD technology, or the SCD wind turbines. We have obtained exclusive license rights from aerodyn Asia Co., Ltd., or aerodyn Asia, an affiliate of aerodyn Energiesysteme GmbH, or aerodyn Energiesysteme, to manufacture and distribute wind turbines utilizing its advanced SCD technology in China, namely SCD wind turbines, with a rated power capacity ranging from 2.5MW to 3.0MW, or the 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines, and a rated power capacity of 6.0MW, or the 6.0MW SCD wind turbines. The SCD technology is a new technology and we are not aware of any commercially available wind turbines utilizing this technology in China. We completed our first 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbine prototype in May 2010 which was connected to grid at the end of 2010. We commenced the first small-batch production of the 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines in early 2011 and the major components for 6.0MW SCD wind turbine prototype have been ordered. Therefore, we have completed in-house testing for the generator and have commenced the assembly for the gearbox. In June 2013, we successfully completed our first 6.0MW SCD prototype wind turbine and the preparation for installation was commenced in 2013. We expect to finish the installation in mid of 2014. The 6.0MW SCD prototype utilized our advanced two-bladed SCD technologies and is designed mainly for off-shore operation. We may be unable to timely deliver and install our SCD wind turbines in a commercial scale in the future and the SCD wind turbines may perform below expectations. For instance, we have finished the design work for the 58.5 meter diameter carbon rotor blades for SCD3.0MW wind turbine, which is designed and suitable for low wind speed areas. However, we intentionally postponed the commercial manufacturing of this carbon blade and SCD wind turbine modification given the current high manufacturing costs. In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient customer demand and the level of acceptance of the SCD technology by our customers is uncertain. Under our license agreement with aerodyn Asia, after we enter into the series production stage of the SCD wind turbines, we need to obtain an approval from aerodyn Asia with respect to the production and relevant royalty payments, upon which we are obligated to pay an advance minimum annual royalty payment. These advance amounts will not be refunded. As such, if we cannot generate sufficient market demand for our SCD wind turbines, we may be obliged to make payments to aerodyn Asia even if we do not generate any income from the sales of our SCD wind turbines. As of the date of this annual report, no such approval had been issued by aerodyn Asia as the conditions were not met and consequently, we had not made any advance minimum annual royalty payment. Our SCD wind turbines may be used for offshore applications, which pose unique design, installation and post-sales servicing challenges compared to our onshore models. However, due to the fact that our SCD wind turbines are based on a new technology and that the long-term reliability of such technology has not been proven, it is uncertain whether our SCD wind turbines can be installed on offshore wind farms and will perform as designed. It has not been proven whether the special surface treatment and design of our SCD wind turbines are adequate for the erosive and salty environments that are typical of offshore wind farms. The installation and maintenance of such offshore wind turbines are expected to be more difficult, labor intensive and costly. For example, we intend to install our 6.0MW SCD wind turbines farther offshore than 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines to take advantage of stronger and steadier winds found at sea. This requires implementing advanced technologies and incurring additional material and labor costs relating to the construction of platforms that are stable enough to support the weight of the wind turbines and withstand severe weather conditions and strong wave forces under the water. Furthermore, additional costs for transporting raw materials and components during construction as well as maintenance staff to regularly access those offshore wind farms throughout the wind farm operation cycle may not be economically feasible. The operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbines may also be significantly affected by marine weather and water conditions. In addition, it is vital that the wind turbines used on offshore wind farms are reliable in order to minimize maintenance cost. Lastly, competitors may develop, for use in wind farms located farther offshore, large multi-megawatt wind turbines that have technological or cost advantages over our SCD wind turbines. Moreover, the development of offshore wind turbines and their key components is still in the early stage in China, where wind farm operators have limited operating experience with offshore sites. Offshore wind farms may not be economically sustainable. For example, the cost of building the platforms, placing electric wires underwater and establishing grid connection for offshore wind farms is substantially higher, as compared to that of the onshore wind farms. Consequently, the development of offshore wind farms may progress more slowly than expected, which will materially and negatively impact the offshore segment of the wind turbine industry, which, in turn, may adversely affect the demand for our SCD wind turbines. If we are unable to maintain a satisfactory relationship with aerodyn, our business may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We co-designed and co-developed our 1.5MW wind turbines with aerodyn Energiesysteme after we received relevant technical documents and drawings with respect to their turbine manufacturing technologies from Zhongshan Mingyang Electrical Co., Ltd., or Mingyang Electrical, which initially obtained them from aerodyn Energiesysteme. We also used aerodyn Energiesysteme’s rotor blade technologies to manufacture rotor blades of our 1.5MW wind turbines. We have obtained exclusive license rights from aerodyn Asia under a license agreement to manufacture and distribute 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines and 6.0MW SCD wind turbines in China. Under a supplemental agreement signed with aerodyn Asia in July 2010, we were allowed to distribute 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines in the states of the American continent, subject to the consent of aerodyn Asia on a project-by-project basis. Our rights to distribute 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines and 6.0MW SCD wind turbines on an exclusive basis will expire on January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019, respectively. If we are unable to maintain a satisfactory relationship with aerodyn Asia and aerodyn Energiesysteme, collectively, aerodyn, or if aerodyn establishes similar or more favorable relationships with our competitors, whether or not in violation of its contractual arrangements with us, our operating results and our business would be harmed. We cannot assure you that aerodyn will not terminate the existing license agreements to our disadvantage or that it will grant us additional licenses for any new technologies or products it may develop in the future. Under our license agreement with aerodyn Asia, we are prohibited from granting sublicenses to affiliated entities, entering into joint ventures or similar partnerships or contracting subsidiaries other than Guangdong Mingyang Wind Power Industry Group Co., Ltd., or Guangdong Mingyang, to manufacture either the rotor blades or the SCD wind turbines without aerodyn Asia’s consent. Any deterioration of our relationship with aerodyn could harm our business operation and the growth of our business. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We were founded as a subsidiary of Mingyang Electrical and commenced operations in June 2006. Our limited operating history provides a limited basis for you to evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. We successfully installed our first wind turbine prototype in October 2007 in Guangdong Province and we made our first commercial delivery of wind turbines in May 2008 to a wind farm located in Inner Mongolia. We delivered 1,090 units, 472 units and 614 units of wind turbines in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, of which 980 units, 518 units and 549 units were commissioned and revenue recognized. Our revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013 from the sales of wind turbines was RMB5,438.1 million, RMB2,649.7 million and RMB2,688.8 million (US$444.1 million), respectively. To sustain our growth, we must, among other things, further expand our production capacity and customer base. The growth of our business will impose substantial demands on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources as well as increase our working capital needs. Our ability to grow our business is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including the following, some of which are commonly experienced by other China-based early-stage companies: • retain and acquire customers and accurately assess and meet their needs and market demands; • design and upgrade products tailored for the wind and weather conditions in China and other international markets where our products are intended to be installed, that meet the demands of our customers; • competitively price our products and services; • maintain and expand our relationships with technology partners; • respond to changes in the industrial standards and regulatory environment in the wind power equipment industry as well as the industry in which our customers operate; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; • increase marketing, sales and post-sales services activities and otherwise increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products and services; • manage our raw material and component supplies; • raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; • manage and implement new business models, including engineering, procurement and construction, or EPC, arrangements, and • attract, retain and train qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the success of our growth strategies depends on a number of external factors that are beyond our control, for example, the expected growth of China’s alternative energy industry in general and wind power equipment industry in particular and the competition from other wind power equipment manufacturers. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. 8 Table of Contents We incurred a loss of RMB223.1 million in 2009 and became profitable in the first quarter of 2010 and generated net profit in the amount of RMB709.2 million and RMB292.3 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. We incurred a loss of RMB300.8 million and RMB647.4 million (US$106.9 million) for the years of 2012 and 2013, respectively, primarily due to the significant decrease in the total number wind turbines commissioned in a volatile and competitive economic environment and the decrease in the average selling prices of wind turbines we delivered during this period. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. Our ability to maintain and increase profitability depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to continue to grow our business and to control our costs, which is subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. Problems with quality or performance in our products as well as product liability claims could result in negative impact on our relationships with customers and our reputation and cause reduced market demand for our products. We perform a functionality test on our wind turbines after the installation work has been completed in order to test the performance of our wind turbines to make sure they meet all of the specific acceptance criteria of our customers. The completion of the functionality test after the installation indicates that our wind turbines have been commissioned. A durability test, which typically lasts 240 hours but may be as long as 360 or 500 hours on a case-by-case basis upon customers’ request, is subsequently performed to ensure proper and stable connection of our wind turbines to power grids. The warranty period of our wind turbines typically commences after they pass the durability test. We cannot assure you that our wind turbines will not incur any operational problems in the future and if it happens, such problems may have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and results of operation. The performance and operational reliability of the wind turbines we manufacture in the medium- and long-term are uncertain. Although wind turbines are generally designed for a 20-year life cycle, we cannot assure you of the operational life of our wind turbines or about their medium- to long-term performance and operational reliability. We also provide warranty for our wind turbines after they have passed the durability test. We are generally obligated to pay a monetary damage in the case of non-performance or underperformance. Customers can also choose to replace the wind turbines if the annual power output of our wind turbines does not exceed certain designed power output after extensive verification. Problems with the quality or performance of the wind turbines we manufacture also expose us to potential product liability claims. While we have not yet experienced any significant product liability claims, as a result of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the impact of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Any product liability claims or regulatory actions related to problems in the quality or performance of our products could be costly and time-consuming to defend. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant damages and require us to make significant payments. We currently do not maintain product liability insurance to cover potential bodily injury or property damages arising from the operations of our products and may be unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, any product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation. Additionally, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products or other safety issues could warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. If the authorities in the jurisdictions where we sell our products decide that these products failed to comply with applicable quality and safety requirements, we also could be subject to regulatory actions. Any defect, underperformance or problem of our wind turbines or any perception that our products may contain errors or defects, or any product liability claims related to such errors or defects, may adversely impact our customer relationships and harm our reputation and credibility, resulting in a reduced market demand for our wind turbines, decrease in our revenue, increase in our expenses and loss of market share. Unanticipated delays, postponements or even cancellations of our wind turbine orders may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our order book comprises firm purchase orders for our wind turbines for particular wind farms under sales contracts that specify the delivery of wind turbines at predetermined intervals over a period of several months and payments to us in installments. However, there can be no assurance that such orders will not be cancelled, delayed or reduced, or that our customers will perform in full their payment and other obligations in accordance with the sales contracts. Adverse changes in current global financial markets and wind power industry or other factors beyond our control, or the control of our customers, may cause our customers to delay, postpone or cancel their wind farm projects whether as a result of delays or failures to obtain necessary permits, authorizations, or as a result of other difficulties or obstructions. For example, in 2011 and 2012, due to the slow-down in the wind power industry and the adverse weather condition in China, some of our customers rescheduled their wind farm construction and installation plans, which in turn resulted in the delays of a portion of our wind turbine deliveries. Though we did not encounter such delay in 2013, we cannot assure you that similar delays and postponements or even cancellations will not occur in the future. 9 Table of Contents A certain portion of our wind turbine sales contracts do not specify the delivery schedule and our customers have discretion to decide the timing of delivery. In addition, under many of our sales contracts, our customers have the right to cancel, at any time and at their discretion upon one-month prior written notice, orders for the wind turbines that have not already been assembled and not readied for delivery by the end of the notice period, provided that the customers compensate us for a portion of the cancelled units at a mutually agreed amount or purchase certain additional remaining units under such sales contract at the contract price. Due to the nature of the wind turbine business and common practice in the wind power industry in China, wind farm operators usually are in a stronger bargaining position than turbine suppliers and consequently in most cases the terms and conditions of wind turbine sales contracts used in this industry in China are generally favorable to wind farm operators. As we negotiate the terms in sales contracts with our customers on a project-by-project basis, we cannot predict for which projects the customers will have the right to cancel orders. In addition, we cannot assure you that customers will not exercise the right to cancel all or part of purchase orders in the future. Furthermore, most of our sales contracts do not provide for additional penalties for failures to purchase or delays caused by our customers, and even if the contracts provide for such penalties, the full value of the sales contracts may not be recoverable. Accordingly, our order book is not a guarantee of our future revenue, but, rather, it represents business that is considered likely to be engaged. In addition, we may need to order special components in connection with certain wind turbine sales contracts, and in the event such wind turbine sales contracts are delayed or cancelled in the future, our inventory level may be higher than planned and we may need to absorb the cost for the already purchased components. If we fail to deliver wind turbines on time, we may be required to pay penalties and our orders may be cancelled and our results of operations may be negatively affected. We are required to deliver wind turbines according to the delivery schedules set out in the sales contracts or as we and the respective customers may otherwise agree. If we fail to deliver our wind turbines on time, we may be required to pay a penalty for each week of such delay, calculated as a percentage of the total contract value, which percentage increases together with the length of the delay. Our customers can deduct such penalty amounts from their payments to us. Our customers also have the right to cancel part or all of orders in the event of significant delays as a result of our fault. We cannot assure you that we will deliver our wind turbines on time in the future due to delays in supply of raw materials or components, limitation in production capacity or any other reasons that may be beyond our control and we may not be able to seek compensation from suppliers or other parties. If such delays occur, we may incur penalties, customers may cancel their orders and our financial condition, results of operations and our reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our expansion efficiently, in particular, overseas market expansion, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have derived our revenue from customers who are major national or regional large power operators in China. To expand our business operations, we have been actively developing markets outside of China and the number of wind turbines shipped to overseas customers has been increasing. However, such expansion requires significant managerial, operational, technical, capital and other resources. To successfully implement our overseas expansion plans, we also need to recruit, train and retain qualified management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel as we expand into new overseas markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations or integrate new operations in a cost effective manner. In November 2012, Mingyang Singapore acquired a 50% equity interest in Global Wind Power Limited, or GWPL, in India. We expected to integrate most of GWPL’s supporting functions into our existing operations. We are required to obtain certain approvals and type certifications in order to sell our wind turbines in India. We have obtained one certificate for our MY1500/77 wind turbine model from Centre for Wind Energy Technology, or C-WET, an Indian local certification body in the wind energy sector, and are in the process of obtaining additional type certificates for more turbines of our product portfolio. We may not be able to sell the full range of our wind turbines in India before such requisite approvals or certificates are obtained or other administrative procedures are completed. If we fail to complete such procedures in a timely manner or at all, our expansion plan, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, GWPL’s operational and financial performance has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on us. Since the completion of the acquisition until December 31, 2013, we consolidated GWPL’s results into our financial statement, which contributed revenue of RMB68.9 million (US$11.4 million) and a net loss of RMB366.0 million (US$60.5 million) (including impairment loss for goodwill attributable to GWPL) to our consolidated financial results for the year ended December 31, 2013. Since January 1, 2014, we waived our right to appoint a simple majority of the members of the board of director of GWPL and the right to cast vote at any general shareholders meeting of GWPL. As a result, GWPL was treated as a joint venture of us since January 1, 2014 and we no longer consolidate its results into our financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2014 and beyond. As we expect to continue to implement our expansion strategy, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, or integrate new overseas operations in a cost effective manner. Any such failure may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operation. 10 Table of Contents A severe and prolonged global economic recession and the corresponding slowdown in the Chinese economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be continued and what effects it may have. We cannot assure you that the European sovereign debt crisis will not have any adverse impact on our expansion plan in European market. In addition, there are considerable uncertainties over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in higher oil prices and significant market volatility, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan. Furthermore, economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions, as well as changes in domestic economic and political policies and the expected or perceived overall economic growth rate in China. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers may reduce demands for our products due to the overall slower growth of the wind power industry, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing customers. To the extent we offer credit to any customer and such customer experiences financial difficulties due to the economic slowdown, we could have difficulty collecting payment from such customer. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence in our company and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents During the course of the preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2013 and for the year ended December 31,2013, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements in financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. The identified material weaknesses related to the ineffective operating controls of our Indian operating segment over the impairment test for intangible assets and inventory management process, and inadequate oversight of financing transactions. The above material weaknesses resulted in material adjustments in our Indian operating segment to correct the overstatement in the carrying amounts of intangible assets and inventories, the understatement of cost of sales and the under-accrual of interest expenses for loans from related parties. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Under rules and regulations implementing Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to include a management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. In addition, under such rules, our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Using criteria established in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992)” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or the COSO, our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 and, as a result of the material weakness described above, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2013. Our independent registered public accounting firm has also audited and attested, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, and its report dated April 30, 2013 expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken remediation steps to address these control deficiencies, see “Item 15. Controls and Procedures” for more details. Moreover, during the course of the preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2011, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we took certain remedial measures to address the material weaknesses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis. As effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and other requirements going forward. Our research and development efforts may not result in successful new products and market acceptance and profitability of the new products are uncertain. Our future success highly depends on our ability to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the wind power equipment industry. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position that we currently enjoy and to continue to grow our business, we need to design, develop and market new and more cost-efficient wind turbines and introduce new products to meet growing market demands and changing technical standards. The development of new wind turbine models requires considerable investment and our significant expenditures on research and development may not yield as much benefit as we anticipate. On the other hand, since the industry has shifted its focus from size and speed of wind turbines to quality and efficiency, we are required to continuously improve and upgrade our products to ensure the reliability and cost-efficiency. Our research and development expenses accounted for approximately 1.6%, 3.0% and 3.6% of our total revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We expect to spend a significant amount on research and development and to commit significant investments in product development personnel over the next few years. For example, in March 2012, we established our North American research and development center on the Centennial Campus of N.C. State University in Raleigh, North Carolina, which focuses on enhancing the energy output and lowering the cost of electricity of offshore wind turbines. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain and the success of our new products will depend on a number of factors, including product quality, competition, customer acceptance, price, general market conditions, government incentives, our ability to integrate customer feedback into our new products, our ability to accurately assess technological trends and customer needs and the strength of our marketing and distribution capabilities. For example, under a mutual agreement with aerodyn Asia, we rescheduled the commencement of the cooperative activities for 6.0MW SCD technologies from February 2009 to January 2010 due to market conditions. We cannot assure you that similar delays and postponement will not reoccur in the future. Further, our competitors may adopt more advanced technologies or develop products that are more effective or commercially attractive at an even lower cost than we do. If our competitors’ products are more effective or commercially attractive than ours, sales of our products may be negatively impacted, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may experience difficulty in collecting trade receivables from our customers and our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We derive our revenue from the sale of products and technical and maintenance support services to our customers and are subject to counterparty risks. Due to the high unit prices of our wind turbines, we usually maintain a high trade receivable balance and our trade receivables are collected over a long period, in accordance with industry practice and contract negotiations. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our trade receivable balance (after allowance for doubtful debts), including trade receivables from Mingyang Electrical, was RMB4,655.9 million, RMB4,571.8 million and RMB4,249.9 million (US$702.0 million), respectively. The average turnover days of our trade receivables were 242 days, 596 days and 550 days for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The significant increase in the average turnover days from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to the inability of our customers to obtain funding from financial institutions in a timely manner resulting from the tightened monetary policy adopted by PRC government which delayed the approval of loan applications of such customers. The increase in the average turnover days was also attributable to a lower portion of down payments collected from our customers in response to severe competition in wind power industry in China. The decrease in the average turnover days from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to our effort in accelerating the collection of trade receivables. In addition, allowances are made against trade receivables to the extent amounts are considered to be uncollectible or unlikely to be collected within a reasonable period of time vary depending on the customer’s financial condition, the amount of receivables in dispute, the current receivables aging and current payment patterns as well as overall market conditions and historical losses. Although we have been seeking to improve our trade receivable balance by providing additional payment options to customers, including discounts for early settlement, we expect neither the collection nor the age of our receivables to improve significantly in the foreseeable future. In addition, we cannot assure you that our customers will meet the payment obligations on time or in full or that the level of bad debts will not increase. Any inability on the part of our customers to settle amounts owed to us on time may have a material and adverse effect on us. As our business continues to expand and current industry payment and collection practices as well as our own billing practices remain the same, we may be expected to maintain high trade receivable balances, which could negatively affect our cash flows, particularly our short-term cash flows. If the age of our receivables increases, our exposure to the credit risk of our customers would increase as well. Allowance for doubtful debts was RMB61.8 million, RMB212.3 million and RMB377.8 million (US$62.4 million) as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. If we incur bad debt expenses as a result, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, our customers make payments in installments after they have signed the sales contracts with us. This is a typical arrangement in China’s wind power equipment industry as necessitated by the substantial capital investment requirement in connection with wind farm projects. If we do not offer this arrangement, we could lose our customers and be unable to sustain our future business growth. This installment arrangement exposes us to additional business and credit risk and uncertainty, in particular, the risk of default or delay by customers in payment under the wind turbine sales contracts. Such risks may become more prominent in an economic slowdown or recession, which may result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. Our litigation and servicing costs may also increase as a result. Our inability to collect payments from our customers in a timely and sufficient manner may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to receive compensation from suppliers for defective raw materials or components used in our wind turbines and warranty provisions in our supply contracts may be insufficient. In the event that we become subject to product liability or warranty claims caused by defective raw materials or components from third-party suppliers, we can attempt to seek compensation from the relevant suppliers. However, warranties provided by suppliers may be for periods shorter than the warranty periods we provide to our customers and warranty claims against suppliers may be subject to certain conditions precedent which may not be satisfied. Further, our supply contracts usually do not have provisions to cover lost profits and indirect or consequential losses. If no claim can be asserted against a supplier, or amounts that we claim cannot be recovered from the supplier, to the extent that such amounts cannot be covered by insurance coverage, if any, we may be required to bear customer claims or replace the wind turbines or components at our own costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights or we may be subject to claims for the infringement of intellectual property rights of others. As of December 31, 2013, we had obtained two copyrights, 132 patents and a number of patent applications at various stages pending in China, all of which were granted initial approval. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property protection for our products and technologies and our ability to successfully protect such intellectual properties and to defend ourselves against third-party challenges. We cannot assure you, however, the protection measures we currently implement are adequate to enforce such protection efficiently or to prevent any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, nor can we assure you that our competitors will not independently develop or license from third parties the technologies that are equivalent or superior to our technologies, in which case we would not be able to gain or keep our competitive advantage. 13 Table of Contents Our success also depends largely on our ability to develop and use our technology and know-how through cooperation with our technology partners without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, as well as our ability to use the technology we license from our technology partners. However, we cannot assure you that our technology partners actually have the requisite intellectual property rights, nor can we assure you that they have not infringed other third parties’ patents, trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights. In addition, as we adopt new technologies and roll out new products, we face the risk of being subject to intellectual property infringement claims that may arise from the use of such new technologies and the provision of new products. We have obtained exclusive license rights from aerodyn Asia to manufacture and distribute wind turbines by using its SCD technologies in China. We have non-exclusive rights transferred from Mingyang Electrical to use aerodyn Energiesysteme’s blade technologies for our 1.5MW wind turbines. Our technology partners including aerodyn may license their relevant technologies to our competitors or other third parties. To the extent these technologies provide us any competitive advantage, such licenses to competitors may allow them to compete against us more effectively. In addition, our competitors may have greater resources and may develop advanced technologies or processes based on these licensed intellectual property rights. If our current licenses with our technology partners are terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to independently develop equivalent technology successfully or obtain licenses for alternative technologies, or that we will be able to redesign our production lines to eliminate the need for such a license. Furthermore, the existence of an intellectual property right may not necessarily protect us from competition, as it may be challenged, invalidated or held to be unenforceable. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents or produce products in countries that do not recognize our patents. Our patent priority in the PRC may be defeated by third-party patents issued on a later date if the applications for such patents were filed before us. Additionally, the existence of a patent does not provide assurance that the manufacturing, sale or use of our products does not infringe others’ patent rights. Third parties may also have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented products or utilizing our patented technologies or processes. As it may take years for patent applications to be approved, there may be pending applications, known or unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents upon which we may infringe on. Therefore, we may initiate lawsuits to defend our ownership or proprietary design of our products and trade secrets. Moreover, we were in the past and may in the future be subject to claims for the infringement of intellectual property rights of others. We may encounter litigation brought by third parties based on claims that we have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others, either of which will be time-consuming and costly to defend. We cannot assure you that we can achieve a favorable outcome in the litigation, if a claim is asserted. If we are unable to sufficiently protect our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, or successfully defend ourselves from infringement claims, our reputation, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to litigation in China and overseas in the ordinary course of business. We are from time to time, in the ordinary course of business, subject to various legal proceedings and claims in China. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, asserted or threatened, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, we and our overseas subsidiaries, including GWPL, are also from time to time, in the ordinary course of business, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which require additional resources and costs. We cannot assure you that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and we are subject to risks associated with availability and volatility in the prices of raw materials, components and utilities. Although we typically have multiple suppliers for each raw material or component, we place a substantial percentage of our orders with a limited number of key suppliers. For example, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, we purchased approximately 46%, 47% and 45%, respectively, of our components from our five largest suppliers, as measured by cost. In particular, approximately 17%, 17% and 18%, respectively, of our components were purchased from our largest supplier in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. With limited exceptions, we do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Instead, we typically place orders with our suppliers after we secure our wind turbine sales contracts. As such, an increase in demand for our raw materials and components in the future may result in the interruption or delay in the supply of our raw materials and components, which may adversely affect our ability to meet market demand for our products or expand our business as planned. We cannot assure you that such delays will not occur in the future. Moreover, we may be subject to significant fluctuation in the prices of our raw materials and components, which may increase our operating costs if we are unable to fully pass along such increase to our customers. If we are unable to effectively control our manufacturing costs, in particular, the costs of raw materials and components of our wind turbines, we may not be able to maintain our competitiveness and achieve profitability. Certain components are manufactured or customized for us. If we are unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner or without a reduction in quality, this may harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins and cause us to lose market share. We have in the past experienced delays in the supply of gearboxes from one of our overseas suppliers. We have not experienced any delays since 2010 through 2013. Since January 2011, our key suppliers started to provide us with a five-year warranty over key components, starting from the date that relevant wind turbines commence operation, or a 66-month warranty period, starting from the date of shipment of such parts or components, whichever is earlier. 14 Table of Contents We may from time to time purchase certain of our key components from overseas suppliers upon requests from our customers. We may also need to source certain components for our SCD wind turbines from overseas suppliers as such components are not widely available in China. As we import components, we may be required to devote additional effort and time and incur additional transportation costs. If certain of our overseas suppliers fail to deliver the components we purchase in a timely manner, we may have difficulty or incur higher costs identifying replacement suppliers, or we may suffer from reduced product availability, which will further harm our operating results. We may fail to compete effectively in the wind power equipment industry and may be unable to increase or maintain our market share. The wind power equipment industry is highly competitive, especially in China. Factors affecting our competitive position include performance of our wind turbines, reliability, product quality, technology, price and the scope and quality of our technical and maintenance support services. Since our inception, we have spent considerable resources on the designing, manufacturing and marketing of wind turbines. However, some of our competitors may have greater brand recognition, greater resources and larger customer bases than we do and new competitors may also emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Most of our existing or prospective customers are large state-owned national and regional electric power producers, some of which may leverage their financial and technological advantage to develop and manufacture wind turbines themselves and become our competitors. Furthermore, we expect increasing competition from overseas manufacturers which are expanding or may expand their presence in China, particularly given the cancellation of certain governmental policies supporting domestic manufacturers. Growing competition may result in a decline in our market share or may force us to reduce the prices of our products and technical and maintenance support services, which will negatively affect our revenue and margins. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. Our cooperative framework agreements with local governmental authorities and wind farm operators may not be enforceable under PRC law and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected if these agreements are not performed as intended. From time to time, we enter into cooperative framework agreements with local governmental authorities and wind farm operators in order to obtain access to wind resources. For example, in May 2011, we entered into a framework agreement with the local governmental authority in Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province, in connection with granting us priority to obtain rare earth resources and to supply wind turbines for proposed wind farm projects. In October 2011, June 2012 and April 2012, we entered into a strategic cooperative agreement with the Committee of High-Tech Industry Development Zone of Yangjiang, Guangdong Province and the local governmental authorities of Gaozhou, Guangdong Province and Dali Bai Autonomous Region, Yunnan Province, respectively, in connection with granting us priority to develop wind farm projects. In Mach and July 2013, we entered into cooperative agreements with the local governmental authorities in Ar Khorchin Banner of Inner Mongolia and Rongjiang County, Guizhou Province, respectively. In October 2013, we entered into a wind-solar project investment agreements with the local governmental authority in Qinghai Province. These agreements are in connection with wind farm development and wind turbine supply. Under these agreements, we generally agreed to invest and establish facilities in these regions, in exchange for which, we obtained land, tax and other policy incentives from local governments and these wind farm operators agreed to purchase our wind turbines with the first priority. Subject to PRC laws and regulations, the local governments may not have the authority or power to provide us with the tax, land and other policy incentives and that the obligations of the local governments to provide us with tax, land and other policy incentives and the obligations of the wind farm operators to purchase our wind turbines may not be enforceable under PRC law as the performance of these obligations may violate PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the Opinions on Curtailing Over-capacity and Excessive Construction in Certain Industries and Guiding the Healthy Development of Such Industries jointly issued by the NDRC and nine other government authorities in September 2009, or the NDRC Opinions, which aims to curb the over-development and investment in industry sectors, including steel, concrete, polysilicon and wind power equipment. Under the NDRC Opinions, among other things, the requirement imposed by local authorities during the bidding process to use locally manufactured wind power equipment or to build wind power equipment production capacity locally is strictly prohibited. We cannot assure you that those framework agreements we have entered into are enforceable at all and our capital commitments contemplated under these agreements to build factories in the local regions will generate anticipated returns or that any performance of the local governments or wind farm operators of their respective obligations under these agreements, if any, would not cause unintended negative consequences as a result of potential conflicts with other responsibilities or obligations these local governments or wind farm operators ought to perform. 15 Table of Contents Failure to maintain inventory levels that approximate the demands for our products could cause us to lose sales or result in excessive inventory. We schedule the procurement of raw materials and components, manufacturing and assembly activities and arrangement of logistics for delivery of our wind turbines primarily on the basis of wind turbine orders and adjust monthly upon actual production and delivery progress. Since our inception, we have experienced only one material delay in the delivery of our wind turbines due to the supplier’s delay of a key component. Estimates are inherently uncertain and our customers may cancel or delay their orders under the turbine sales contracts. We cannot assure you that our scheduled manufacturing and assembly activities approximate actual customer delivery needs. If our scheduled manufacturing and assembly is not able to meet the actual delivery needs, we may not be able to maintain an adequate inventory level for our wind turbines and may lose sales and market share to our competitors. In addition, even if we are able to increase our manufacturing and assembly levels to meet unanticipated demands, we may experience significant lead-time for turbine delivery or may not have procured adequate raw materials or components to manufacture the wind turbines. On the other hand, we may also be exposed to increased inventory risks as we may accumulate excess inventory of our products or raw materials or components for our wind turbines resulting from the cancellation of wind turbine sales contracts by our customers. Therefore, our failure to maintain an inventory level that approximates the demands for our wind turbines could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability of our customers to obtain financing at reasonable and attractive terms for wind farm projects may have a significant adverse influence on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our customers require bank financing for wind farm projects and therefore the financing terms available in the market have a significant influence on the demand for our wind turbines. Higher levels of interest rates cause wind farm projects to become more costly and less attractive. The ability to obtain financing for a wind farm project also depends on the willingness of banks and other financing institutions to provide loans to the wind power industry. In particular, the global capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since early 2008. Concerns over inflation or deflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the United States and elsewhere in the world have contributed to market volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and the capital markets in the future. These factors led to an economic slowdown and may cause difficulties for certain of our customers to access adequate funding to pay for wind turbines they have ordered in a timely manner. In recent periods, there have been renewed concerns about the sustainability of economic recovery which may cause our customers to delay or cancel their investments in wind farm projects and financial institutions may implement more stringent procedures to approve and grant credit facilities or other financial supports. In addition, we experienced increasing finance expenses in 2011 and 2012 resulting from the financial arrangement fees paid to a commercial bank for our customers to obtain lease financing services for the settlement of our trade receivables. We cannot assure you that we will be able to control the increase in such expenses in the future and if we continue to incur such fees for our customers to obtain lease financing services to settle our trade receivables, our finance expenses may further increase which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively identify and capture international market opportunities or if we fail to market, sell and provide technical and maintenance support services for our products in overseas markets, our business prospects may be affected. We intend to continue identifying and capturing international market opportunities. For example, we believe that India is a wind power market with great potential and that a local manufacturing presence would better support our expansion in India. Mingyang Singapore acquired a 50% equity interest in GWPL in India in November 2012 in order to take advantage of its established resources, including manufacturing facility, local marketing and operating workforce. We intend to further expand into selected major overseas wind power markets. To market, sell, deliver and install our wind turbines and provide technical and maintenance support services internationally may expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency foreign exchange rates; • difficulties in engaging and retaining distributors or direct sales force who are knowledgeable about, and capable to function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased operating costs associated with maintaining marketing and sales efforts in various countries and regions; • increased operating costs associated with transporting our products and the provision of technical and maintenance support services internationally; • evolving local regulations and government policies; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we intend to offer our products and services, including but not limited to any permits, licenses, registrations or certificates that may be required in those markets; 16 Table of Contents • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries and regions. As we have limited experience and resources operating in the international market, we may be unable to efficiently expand our business abroad as we have planned. We cannot assure you that we will always be able to implement international marketing efforts or make overseas investments at a cost effective manner. If we fail to successfully identify and capture overseas market opportunities, we may not obtain expected investment return and our business operation and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. For example, we decided to terminate our agreements with two Bulgarian companies in connection with two wind power projects with a proposed total capacity of 125MW in Bulgaria, after shipping the first batch of three units of 1.5MW wind turbines in February 2012, primarily due to the unexpected changes in feed-in tariff policy in Bulgaria. In addition, our exclusive license rights from aerodyn Asia to manufacture and distribute our 2.5/3.0MW and 6.0MW SCD wind turbines is limited to China and, as such, our ability to expand in overseas markets depends on our ability to obtain additional licenses from aerodyn Asia. Under a supplemental agreement signed with aerodyn Asia in July 2010, we were allowed to distribute 2.5/3.0MW SCD wind turbines in the states of the American continent, subject to the consent of aerodyn Asia on a project-by-project basis. Furthermore, we are in the process of applying for additional certificates for our turbines from GL and local industry associations which we believe will be required by our customers in India. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such additional licenses or certificates within a reasonable timeframe or at reasonable costs, if at all. If we fail to significantly expand our production capacity and output, we may lose market share. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase our production capacity and output. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to meet customer needs and market demand, benefit from economies of scale to decrease our costs per wind turbine, apply capital efficiently, maintain our competitive position and improve our profitability. As we expand our production capacity, our choice of locations for new factories or decision to expand existing factories may become less advantageous to our business, economically or otherwise, due to changes in the market conditions, local government policies, changes in wind conditions or other factors that may be beyond our control. We may need to halt the construction or to delay the commencement of production and may be unable to recover any costs that we may have already spent. At times, we may also need to relocate one or more of our factories to other locations, which will increase our operational costs and cause interruption to our production. For example, we delayed the commencement of wind turbine production at our new Tianjin facilities from early 2010 to the end of October 2010 as we decided to fill additional customer orders using our existing manufacturing facility in Jilin which has sufficient manufacturing capacity and was located closer to such customers. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive management team and other key personnel and losing their services would severely disrupt our business and materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Our future success depends substantially on the continuing services of our senior management team, in particular, Mr. Chuanwei Zhang, our chairman and chief executive officer, who founded Mingyang Electrical and us. Mr. Zhang has over 20 years of relevant experience in the electrical equipment sector and the wind power equipment industry and works on a full-time basis for our company. We also rely on the continuing services of Mr. Song Wang, one of our founders and senior vice president who has over 20 years of research and industry experience, Mr. Jiawan Cheng, our chief operation officer who is a wind power expert with over 20 years of experience in procurement, approximately seven of which were spent in the wind power equipment industry. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man insurance for members of our management team or any of our other key personnel. If we lose the services of any senior management and key personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. In addition, if any of our senior management or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers and trade secrets. While we protect our trade secrets by entering into non-disclosure/confidentiality and non-competition agreements with each of our executive officers as well as key personnel who have access to sensitive and confidential information, we cannot assure you that, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, these agreements could be enforced in China. 17 Table of Contents Our business depends on our ability to maintain a skilled labor force and our business may be adversely disrupted if we fail to continue to attract, train and retain our highly qualified technical personnel. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain our technical experts, research and development personnel, engineers, post-sales services personnel and sales and marketing personnel. In particular, Mr. Song Wang and Mr. Jiawan Cheng are two of the ten recognized experts in China’s wind power industry. Dr. Renjing Cao, our chief technology officer, is an award-winning scholar in the field of turbine design and Mr. Wenqi Wang, our special consultant and a wind power equipment specialist in China with more than 20 years of industry experience, provided valuable services in leading our research and development efforts on our 1.5MW and SCD wind turbines. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise and experience in the wind power equipment industry, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for research and development personnel, qualified technical experts, engineers, post-sales service providers and sales and marketing professionals, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continuously attract or retain these individuals. If we are unable to attract and retain valuable employees, to keep pace with our expected growth, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable licenses or registrations for our products, or if such license or registrations are delayed, we will be unable to commercially manufacture, distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The manufacturing of our rotor blades and wind turbines and the selling and servicing of our wind turbines are subject to regulations in China and may be subject to regulations of the countries where we plan to conduct our business. For instance, we are required to obtain land use right certificates, property ownership certificates, planning permits, construction permits and fire safety permits for each of our manufacturing factories built by ourselves, prior to the commencement of production, some of which may be subject to periodical renewal and inspection. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to obtain business licenses, entity code certificates, tax registration certificates, social insurance registration certificates and pollution discharge permits for their ongoing business operation. Our production facilities must meet certain production safety requirements and pass safety inspections conducted by relevant government authorities. We are also required to obtain the pollutant discharge permits and comply with relevant environmental and safety regulations for our rotor blade and turbine production. Failure to obtain or maintain or delay in obtaining any of these permits, licenses and registrations may subject us to fines or penalties or business interruption and therefore could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our failure to obtain or maintain product certifications may negatively affect the sales of our wind turbines. We have obtained several certifications for our products, including the statements of compliance for design assessment for MY1.5s and MY1.5se models from GL, an international certification body in the wind energy sector, product design certificates from China General Certification Center, or CGC, for our MY1.5se and MY1.5sl models and our 2.5MW SCD wind turbine, and a certificate for our regular rotor blades from China Classification Society Certification Company, or CCSC. We are currently at various stages of applications for additional certifications, such as type certificates for our wind turbines with GL. We believe these certifications for our products enhance the credibility of our products and our brand reputation. However, we may experience an unanticipated delay in securing a necessary certification or failure to renew our existing certifications, which may impair our established reputation and prevent us from attracting new customers. For example, certain procedures of the issuance of product certifications, such as type certificate from GL, may involve on-site data collection and examination, which may be delayed due to unexpected adverse weather conditions or unavailability of power grids. In addition, some of our customers have required that our wind turbines be certified. While we have obtained such requisite certificates for the wind turbines we have manufactured and commissioned, and the current industry practice in China does not require mandatory certification, we may be required to provide various certifications in the future if wind farm operators begin to require product certificates as a prerequisite for participation in the competitive bidding process they organize, and under that circumstance, any delay in obtaining or failure to maintain such certificates for the wind turbines we produce in the future may cause us to lose sales. We may not be able to identify suitable targets for or finance future acquisitions or strategic alliances or we may fail to integrate acquired businesses into our businesses successfully. To grow our business, we may pursue acquisitions or strategic alliances that are complementary to our business. In particular, we plan to selectively acquire component manufacturers in order to ensure quality of supply and to provide additional sources of revenue. However, we may not be able to identify and secure suitable opportunities. Our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by a number of factors, such as suitable targets at appropriate valuations and, to the extent necessary for larger acquisitions, our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. 18 Table of Contents Moreover, if a potential candidate is identified, we may fail to enter into a cooperation agreement or acquisition agreement for the candidate on commercially reasonable terms or at all due to the lack of cooperation from counterparties or for other reasons. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions or strategic alliances, whether or not ultimately consummated, could also require significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our existing business. Further, the expected synergies from future acquisitions or strategic alliances may not actually materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or strategic alliances could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs and contingent liabilities. Future strategic alliances or acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the integration of new operations, services and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses and technologies; • our inability to generate sufficient revenue to recover costs and expenses of the strategic alliances or acquisitions; and • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers. Any of the above risks could significantly impair our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We recently began to enter into EPC arrangements for certain wind farm projects which may expose us to various new risks and uncertainties. We began to enter into EPC arrangements in late 2011 for certain wind farm projects as a cost-efficient solution attractive to customers. However, the success of this business model in the long term is uncertain. Under EPC arrangements, we develop the entire wind farm project, either through an investment in a proposed project company or the engagement in the wind farm construction directly at our own costs and expenses, including the installation of our wind turbines, with the intention to sell and transfer to the end customers our capital investment in the project company or the wind farm, as the case may be, for an expected consideration consisting of our initial capital contribution and an agreed fixed return of a certain percentage of such initial investment, upon its completion. To implement EPC arrangements, we invested in joint ventures which are expected to operate wind farm projects. Under most of our current EPC arrangements, we do not recognize revenue from the sale of wind turbines to these joint ventures until they have demonstrated their current ability to settle the sales amount, which is usually evidenced by these entities obtaining financing independently from us. We may be required to source substantial financial support from commercial banks or financial institutions to implement our EPC arrangements. The success of this new business model is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • the experience in managing EPC arrangements, in particular, the construction work of wind farms; • the need to raise additional funds to finance our new investments in project companies or in wind farms projects, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • the longer cash conversion cycles and accounts receivable turnover time than our existing core business model, partially due to the long construction period for wind farm projects; • the significant portion of restricted cash, mortgages or other pledges we may be required by commercial banks for borrowings to facilitate EPC arrangements; • the significant costs incurred by us in developing wind projects that may exceed our budget and may negatively impact our liquidity for the growth of our other core businesses; • our ability to sell and transfer the project company or wind power project to customers for a commercially reasonable consideration within targeted timelines, or at all; • the credit worthiness of our potential customers and their ability and willingness to purchase, or to obtain sufficient financial support to purchase, our wind power projects; and • other uncertainties or unpredictable changes in wind power industry. As of the date of this annual report, we had 13 ongoing EPC arrangements with an aggregate of 351 units of wind turbines. If we are not able to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the EPC arrangements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and our reputation may also be impaired. 19 Table of Contents Noncompliance with environmental and safety regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages and fines as well as adverse publicity. As our rotor blade production generates glass fiber dusts, we are required to comply with national and local environmental regulations applicable to us. We believe we are currently in compliance with applicable environmental regulations in all material aspects and have all necessary environmental permits to operate our business as it is presently conducted. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations and may be subject to adverse publicity. In addition, our production and assembly processes may involve dangerous activities. We are required to comply with all safety requirements and standards applicable to us. If work injury accidents occur, which may result in personal injuries or fatalities and damage to property or equipment, we may be subject to civil or criminal claims and penalties against us. If we are held liable for damages in the event of contamination or injury, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In our ordinary course of business, we have been subject to fines of nonmaterial amount and other penalties for our failure to obtain pollutant discharge permit as required by environmental regulations and other alleged violation of environmental regulations. We have subsequently obtained a confirmation of no material environmental pollution from relevant environmental authority. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to further penalties imposed by the government as a result of the past violations and that similar violations will not reoccur, which may subject us to future fines and or penalties that may interrupt our operations and damage our reputation. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from potential losses. We do not maintain business interruption insurance. As the insurance industry in China is in its early stage of development, the business interruption insurance and the product liability insurance available in China offer limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, especially in the United States. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On the other hand, our business operations, particularly our production facilities, involve risks and hazards that could result in damage to, or destruction of, property and machinery, personal injury, business interruption and possible legal liability. In addition, we do not have product liability insurance covering body injuries and property damage caused by the products we sell, supply or distribute. Therefore, as with other wind turbine manufacturers in China, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims and may need to bear the litigation cost if the use of our products results in body injury or property damage. In March 2011, we purchased an insurance policy covering the expenses and losses we may incur resulting from any product deficiency of our wind turbines. The one-year term insurance policy, which expired in March 2012, covered a batch of 518 units of our wind turbines. The total amount we obtained from claims brought under this insurance policy during the insurance period was approximately RMB8.3 million. Since March 2012, we have not maintained any similar insurance policy. Even if we obtain such insurance, it may not be able to sufficiently cover all of our wind turbines that have been delivered and connected to the grid, nor can we assure you that we will obtain enough insurance proceeds to cover all kinds of expenses we may incur resulting from our product deficiency. We do not carry key-man life insurance and if we lose the services of any senior management and key personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. Furthermore, we do not have property insurance and as such we are exposed to risks associated with losses in values of our equipment, facilities and inventory due to fire, earthquake, flood and a wide range of natural disasters. We do not have personal injury insurance and accidental medical care insurance. Although we require that the third-party transportation companies we engage maintain insurance policies with respect to inland transit risks for our products, the coverage may be inadequate to protect us from potential claims against us and the losses that may result. Our failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by PRC regulations may subject us to penalties. We are required by PRC laws and regulations to contribute towards various government sponsored employee benefit plans, including housing, pension, work-related injury benefits, maternity insurance, medical and unemployment benefit plans, in amounts equal to pre-determined percentages of the salaries, bonuses and certain allowances of our employees, up to a maximum amount specified by the local government where we operate our businesses from time to time. Our total contribution for such employee benefits as required by applicable PRC regulations amounted to RMB23.1 million, RMB23.0 million and RMB22.3 million (US$3.7 million) for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, which were recorded in our cost of sales, operating expenses and inventories. We underpaid RMB0.2 million and RMB0.3 million in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The aggregate amount due reached approximately RMB19.6 million, RMB19.9 million and RMB19.9 million (US$3.3 million) as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, which amounts were recorded as accrued expenses and other payables. 20 Table of Contents Under PRC laws and regulations, any failure to make requisite contributions may subject us to a late fee and persons in charge may be subject to fines ranging from RMB1,000 to RMB10,000, imposed by administrative authorities or labor arbitrations and relevant employees may have the right to claim compensation from us. We do not currently have plans to settle such underpayments. Such fines or other penalties may be imposed upon us, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material and adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have adopted the amended and restated articles of association that became effective immediately upon completion of our initial public offering in October 2010. Our new articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, restrictions, preferences, privileges, and payment obligations, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. If we grant employee share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. Our shareholders adopted our 2010 equity incentive plan on August 31, 2010. We are required to account for share-based compensation in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. On September 30, 2010, we granted options to purchase an aggregate of 4,600,000 ordinary shares under our 2010 equity incentive plan to certain directors, officers and other employees. The initial exercise price of the options was US$8.40, representing 60% of the initial public offering price at US$14.00 per ADS, each ADS representing one ordinary share. Our compensation committee approved an amendment to our 2010 equity incentive plan on August 27, 2013. Subject to the amendment, the exercise price was adjusted to US$1.29 effective on September 1, 2013. On the same day, we granted an additional 1,840,000 options to purchase our ordinary shares with an exercise price of US$1.29. As of the date of this annual report, the number of total outstanding options granted under our 2010 equity incentive plan was 4,805,900. In addition, in January 2013, we issued 600,000 ordinary shares from our treasure shares to one of our then senior management as awards to his past service. We incurred share-based compensation expenses relating to the options and share awards in the amount of RMB112.5 million, RMB42.9 million and RMB33.2 million (US$5.5 million) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In addition, if we grant options, restricted shares or other stock-based awards in the future, we could incur significant compensation charges and our net income could be adversely affected. We have significant outstanding borrowings. If we fail to repay the borrowings or to comply with financial covenants under the loan agreements, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, our outstanding short-term loans (including the current portion of long-term loans) were RMB1,283.1 million (US$211.9 million) and bore a weighted-average interest rate of 7.37% and our outstanding long-term loans (less any current portion) was RMB104.0 million (US$17.2 million) and bore varying interest rates of 5.40% to 14.5%. Although we have been able to obtain renewals of certain of our short-term loans shortly before they would mature, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew similar loans in the future. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to rollover or replace our long-term debt when it matures. If we are unable to obtain renewals of or rollover our debt or find sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms, we may have to repay such borrowings. If we cannot repay our borrowings, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we have entered into and may in the future enter into loan agreements containing financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios. To the extent that we are not able to meet such financial covenants and fail to obtain waivers from the lenders or repay such loans, this may constitute an event of default and as a result, the lenders may refuse to lend additional funds or accelerate the repayment of any outstanding borrowings, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations and business prospects. Furthermore, in response to potential breaches, we may have to negotiate with the relevant lenders terms of prepayment or to amend those financial covenants to prevent actual breaches from occurring. However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to reach agreements with the lenders. In connection with any future amendments to such covenants, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and otherwise seek to modify the terms of our existing loan agreements in ways that are adverse to us. A default under the loan agreements could also trigger cross defaults to our other material agreements which could materially and adversely impair our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. 21 Table of Contents Our future liquidity needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future and as a result you may experience dilution. We may need to raise additional funds to expand our production capacity to meet unexpected increase in market demand or to engage in strategic acquisitions or other activities such that our expenditures exceed our current expectations. If this is the case, we will need to raise additional funds in the future. Our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital-raising activities by China-based companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. If we need to obtain external financing, we cannot assure you that the financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future liquidity needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain bank loans. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and a decrease in the price of our ADSs. The incurrence of additional debt would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to distribute dividends. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significantly more legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Risks Related to Our Industry Uncertainties and adverse changes in government initiatives and policies that affect the alternative energy industry in general and the wind power industry in particular may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe government initiatives, incentives and other favorable policies have been one of the major growth drivers for the alternative energy industry in general and the wind power industry in particular. The alternative energy industry faces intense competition from conventional energy technologies. Due to the relatively high generation costs compared to most other energy sources, alternative energy industries, including the wind power industry, are generally not competitive without government incentive programs. There can be no assurance, however, that government support will continue at the same present level or at all. Any decrease or elimination of government incentives currently available to industry participants may result in increasing operating costs incurred by our current customers or discourage our potential customers from investing in our products and services. Most of our customers are highly dependent on the government initiatives, incentives or other favorable policies to support their operation at a relatively acceptable cost level. These initiatives, incentives and policies include preferential tax treatment, government spending, government financial funds and grants, government incentives for the electricity industry or preferential tariffs on power generated from wind power. For example, China’s long-term renewable energy policy has been shaped by the government’s central planning agency, the NDRC. In August 2007, the NDRC issued the Medium and Long-term Development Plan for Renewable Energy, or the NDRC Plan, which describes the national government’s financial incentives for the renewable energy industry for the multi-year period ending 2020, with an estimated required investment amount of approximately RMB2,000 billion. The NDRC Plan also calls for increasing the electricity generated from non-hydro renewables in areas covered by major grids to reach 1% of the overall electricity supply by 2010 and 3% by 2020. Any uncertainties and adverse changes in government initiatives, incentives or policies will materially and adversely affect the investment plans of our customers and consequently our growth. 22 Table of Contents Uncertainties and adverse changes in government policies relating to the wind power equipment industry may have an adverse impact on us. Wind turbine manufactures have benefited from various policies that promote and encourage renewable energies consumption, such as Renewable Energy Law, Relevant Provisions for the Administration of the Generation of Electricity by Renewable Energy, the NDRC Plan, and Guidance Catalog for the Development of Renewable Energy Industry. Adverse changes in government policies will affect our competitiveness and may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Under the NDRC Opinions issued in September 2009, which aim to curb the overheated development and investment in industrial sectors, including steel, concrete, polysilicon and wind power equipment, existing wind turbine manufacturers are expected to be required to comply with more stringent product quality standards and higher research and development requirements. In addition, no new wind turbine manufacturing companies will be approved and future government support will be primarily focused on wind turbines for offshore applications and wind turbines with a rated power capacity exceeding 2.5MW. We cannot assure you that our current operation and future expansion will not be materially and adversely affected by the NDRC Opinions. In addition, under the NDRC Opinions, we will need to seek pre-approval from the NDRC if we plan to further expand our production capacity. In general, the government authorities would take more stringent scrutiny in approving production capacity expansion projects. We cannot assure you that we will obtain the required approval from the NDRC in time or at all if we plan to further expand our production capacity. Other unfavorable changes in governmental policies may adversely affect our business prospect. We cannot assure you that there will not be any further changes in government policies, promoting other alternative energy industries or providing incentives exclusively to our competitors, which may adversely affect our business prospects. In addition, since November 2010, National Energy Administration of China had conducted special investigations on quality of wind turbines and major of the domestic wind turbine manufacturers, including us, have been investigated. Though none quality problems of our wind turbines was discovered, such investigations indicated a hint that the relevant authorities have become more focusing on the product quality of the wind turbines and we cannot assure you that there may be more stringent regulations or policies on wind turbine manufacturing to be announced in the near future. In addition, to enhance the safety and quality of national power grid, relevant authorities in China have recently implemented stricter industrial standards and requirements for wind power manufacturers and turbines to be connected to the grid. For example, up to 18 new industrial standard technical norms issued by the National Energy Administration came into effect on November 1, 2011. These technical norms focus on various aspects of wind power industry, including industry entry standards for new manufacturers, standards in relating to large-scale grid connection, offshore wind farm development, wind power quality, key equipment manufacture and so on. These new technical norms require the wind turbine manufacturers to devote increasingly significant efforts and capital resources on research and development, ensuring the quality and efficiency of the wind turbines. In December 2011, the National Energy Administration issued new rules requiring newly installed wind turbines approved after January 1, 2011 to obtain a certification proving the low-voltage-ride-through, or LVRT, capabilities. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Regulations—Laws and Regulations Promoting the Development of the Renewable Energy Industry—Project Approval, Product Categorization and Project Requirements.” The LVRT refers to the capability of a wind turbine to react properly to sudden fluctuations in grid voltage and remain connected to the grid under these abnormal conditions. Wind turbine manufacturers are under pressure to upgrade old models and produce new wind turbines subject to this new grid code. China Electric Power Research Institute is currently the only authority with a testing facility for LVRT in China, which has limited resources. As a result, we expect it may be increasingly costly for new wind turbines to obtain such LVRT certification. New government or industrial policies providing higher quality standards for wind turbines in the future may subject us to higher costs and greater technical challenges. In July and December 2011, we obtained testing reports issued by the Wind Power Grid Connection Research and Evaluation Center under the China Electric Power Research Institute, certifying that our MY1.5se model wind turbines had fulfilled LVRT, requirements in accordance with the grid code in China. Currently, 16 of our wind turbine models have passed LVRT test. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the LVRT certificates for our new wind turbines in a timely manner, or at all. 23 Table of Contents Wind power may not be considered as a viable base load source of electricity, therefore its contribution to overall electricity generation might be limited; as a result, our future growth prospects may be adversely affected due to the gradually competitive wind power generation market. We cannot assure you that wind power will be a viable base load source of electricity due to the limited and unsophisticated technologies currently available. This means that while demand for wind energy is expected to increase, it may be unlikely that wind power will be considered a large-scale substitute for conventional energy sources, such as nuclear or fossil-fuel generated power, or as an alternative energy source to more reliable sources, such as hydropower or solar power. Our future growth prospects may be adversely affected due to the gradually competitive market. Any decrease in the price of the conventional fuels resulting from the exploitation of new energy sources or discovery of large deposits of oil, gas or coal may enhance the price competitiveness of electricity generated from those conventional sources, which in turn will have an adverse impact on the demand for electricity generated from wind power. Additionally, there is a risk that innovative technologies could lead to other and more cost competitive alternatives, thereby taking market share away from wind technology. Wind power has inherent disadvantages. For instance, the voltage and frequency of the wind power generated electricity are typically unstable as a result of wind conditions. In addition, wind turbines only generate electricity under pre-determined weather conditions and wind patterns, which further adds volatility of the electricity generated. Special technologies have been employed to adjust and stabilize the electricity generated before it is transmitted onto local power grids. Improved pitch control system, a control system that regulates the rotor blades pitch angle in order to control the speed of rotation and prevents the rotor blades from rotating when the wind speed is outside of a predetermined range, generator and rotor blades design are also believed to enable the wind turbines to generate electricity under a broader range of conditions. However, we cannot assure you that advanced wind technologies would be available in the near future and wind power can remain a competitive alternative energy source. Although the demand for wind power is expected to rise steadily, developments or innovations in other such sectors may adversely affect the future growth prospects of the wind power industry in general, which in turn, will materially and adversely affect the demand of our products. Our customers rely substantially on grid companies to purchase electricity, provide grid connection and provide electricity transmission and dispatch services. If these wind farm operators are unable to sell the electricity they generate or to establish grid connections efficiently, demands for our wind turbines may decrease and our business may be adversely affected. According to the Renewable Energy Law and its implementing rules, grid companies generally must purchase all electricity generated by renewable energy producers within their grids. The electricity sales of the wind farms highly benefit from the mandatory purchase obligations of grid companies imposed by the Renewable Energy Law. However, we cannot assure you that such favorable statutory requirements will not be changed or eliminated in the future due to policy changes at the national or local level in the PRC, or that the wind energy or other renewable energy sectors will not mature to reach a level playing ground to compete with coal power. Furthermore, as the statutory purchase obligation is a relatively new concept in the PRC law, changes to or uncertainties of the methods by which the local governments choose to implement this requirement on grid companies may also negatively impact the statutory support from which we currently benefit. Any adverse change or elimination of the statutory purchase obligations or other relevant support measures may materially and adversely affect the sales of electricity generated from the wind farms operated by our customers, which in turn may decrease the demand for our products. According to the Renewable Energy Law and its implementing rules, grid companies generally must provide grid connection services to renewable energy producers within their grids. However, some of the wind farms owned by our customers are located in remote areas where the grids may not be able to accept all the electricity that the wind farms generate when operating at full capacity. The wind farm operators typically rely on local grid companies to construct and maintain the infrastructure and provide the electricity transmission and dispatch services necessary to connect to the grids, and we cannot assure you that the local grid companies will do so in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, the transmission and dispatch of the full output of the wind farms may be curtailed as a result of various grid constraints, such as grid congestion, restrictions on transmission capacity of the grid and restrictions on electricity dispatch during certain periods. Electricity transmission lines may experience unplanned outages due to system failures, accidents and severe weather conditions, or planned outages due to repair and maintenance, construction work and other reasons beyond our control. As electricity generated from the wind farms is not stored and must be transmitted or used once it is generated, some of the wind turbines of a wind farm may be turned off during such period when electricity is unable to be transmitted due to grid congestion or other grid constraints. Such events could reduce the actual net power generation of the wind farms. In addition, a number of other factors may further decrease electricity output, including wind speed or wind direction or other severe weather condition. As a result, our wind farm operator customers may experience significant financial losses from the inefficient electricity outputs, which may in turn cause the decrease in the demand for our products and our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. The majority of our business operation is in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • access to financing; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese economy has also experienced certain adverse effects due to the recent global financial crisis. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us, and by government policies or guidance aimed at curtailing the perceived over-capacity of certain industry sectors, such as steel, concrete, polysilicon and wind power equipment. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material and adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of investments in renewable energy industries in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material and adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct the majority of our business through our consolidated entities established in China. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to Sino-foreign joint ventures. However, since many laws, rules and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the alternative energy industry or the wind power equipment industry in China, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. 25 Table of Contents We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We conduct the majority of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. We rely on dividends paid by these subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries that is a domestic company is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of its respective registered capital. As of December 31, 2013, the accumulated profits of our PRC subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis under PRC accounting standards, that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB425.5 million (US$70.3 million). Our restricted reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit the ability of our consolidated PRC entities to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. Further, PRC residents are required to file amendments to their registrations with the local SAFE branch if their special purpose companies undergo material events involving changes in capital, such as changes in share capital, mergers and acquisitions, share transfers or exchanges, spin-off transactions or long-term equity or debt investments. Since May 2007, SAFE has issued guidance to its local branches regarding the operational procedures for such registration, which provides more specific and stringent requirements on the registration relating to SAFE Circular 75, including the most recent Notice of SAFE on Printing and Distributing the Implementing Rules for the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies , or Circular 19, which became effective on July 1, 2011. The guidance imposes obligations on onshore subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company to coordinate with and supervise the beneficial owners of the offshore entity who are PRC citizens or residents to complete the SAFE registration process. If the beneficial owners fail to comply, the onshore subsidiaries are required to report the non-compliance to the local branch of SAFE. As of the date of this annual report, Mr. Chuanwei Zhang and Mr. Song Wang, each a PRC resident, collectively beneficially owned approximately 26.0% of our total issued and outstanding share capital. We are advised that they have completed their registration with local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice in connection with their initial acquisition of their beneficial interests in offshore special purpose companies. We are also advised that they have completed the amendment to the registration in connection with the transfers of their equity interests in such offshore special purpose vehicles for beneficial ownership in us. These beneficial owners are required to timely amend their SAFE registration for future changes in their beneficial interests in us pursuant to the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to do so or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit our consolidated PRC entities’ ability to distribute dividends to us or the offshore entities set up by our beneficial owners or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. 26 Table of Contents Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee equity incentive plans may subject our PRC citizen employees or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rule, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by the SAFE and the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, or the Stock Incentive Plan Rules, which replaced the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies issued by the SAFE in March 2007, “domestic individuals” (both PRC residents and non-PRC residents who reside in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year, excluding the foreign diplomatic personnel and representatives of international organizations) who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its stock incentive plan are required, through qualified PRC agents which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the stock incentive plan. In addition, such domestic individuals shall also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options and their purchase and sale of stocks. As such, our employees, who are “domestic individuals” and have been granted share options, or PRC optionees, became subject to the Stock Incentive Plan Rules when our company became an overseas listed company upon the completion of our initial public offering. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with the Individual Foreign Exchange Rule and the Stock Incentive Plan Rules, we and our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, has issued certain circulars concerning employee share options. Under these circulars, our employees working in the PRC who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee share options with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their share options. If our employees fail to pay or we fail to withhold their income taxes according to relevant laws and regulations, we may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities or other PRC government authorities. Furthermore, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Individual Foreign Exchange Rule and the Stock Incentive Plan Rules. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. Loans by us to any of our PRC subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of SAFE. The statutory limit for the total amount of foreign debts of a foreign-invested company is the difference between the amount of total investment as approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart and the amount of registered capital of such foreign-invested company. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. Any capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future loans or capital contributions to our direct or indirect subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to fund or expand our PRC operations may be materially and adversely affected, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. 27 Table of Contents The 2006 M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The 2006 M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities, such as our company, more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the approval of the Ministry of Commerce shall be required for transactions involving the shares of an offshore listed company being used as the acquisition consideration by foreign entities, including Sino-foreign joint ventures. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the 2006 M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar is affected by, among other things, changes in PRC’s political and economic conditions. From 1995 until July 2005, the People’s Bank of China intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain an exchange rate of approximately RMB8.3 per U.S. dollar. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed this policy and began allowing modest appreciation of the Renminbi versus the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following five years. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from our initial public offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenue in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency- denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 28 Table of Contents Our China-sourced income is subject to PRC withholding tax under the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC and we may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% when more detailed rules or precedents are promulgated. We are a Cayman Islands holding company with the majority of our operations conducted through our operating subsidiaries in China. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, is generally subject to a 10% withholding tax. Under an arrangement between China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, which became effective on January 1, 2007, such dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5% for dividends paid by a PRC company to a Hong Kong resident enterprise if such Hong Kong entity owns at least 25% of the equity interest of the PRC company. As such, dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries through our Hong Kong subsidiaries may be subject to a reduced withholding tax at a rate of 5% under this arrangement, provided that our Hong Kong subsidiaries are deemed as “beneficial owners” of such income, and provided further that neither our company nor our Hong Kong subsidiaries are deemed to be PRC tax resident enterprises as described below. However, pursuant to the Notice on Interpretation and Determination of “beneficial owner” under tax treaties, or Circular 601, “beneficial owner” should carry out substantial business activities and own or have control over the income, rights or assets which give rise to such income. Specifically, agents and conduit companies will not be regarded as the “beneficial owner” of such income. If our Hong Kong subsidiaries are not deemed beneficial owner under Circular 601, they may not be able to enjoy the 5% preferential tax treatment and as a result the dividends distributed by our PRC subsidiaries through these Hong Kong subsidiaries will be adversely affected. Circular 601 further lists several factors that would be more unlikely for relevant authorities to identify a company to be a beneficial owner of certain specific income, including (i) the company is obligated to pay or distribute all or substantial part of the income to a third country resident in a prescribed time period, (ii) the company does not or barely engages in other operating activities other than holding the assets or interests from which the income derives, (iii) the assets, business size and employees of the company are relatively limited and could not reasonably match the income, (iv) the company has no or little control over the assets or interests from which the income derives and bears no or little risks, (v) certain income are non-taxable or exempted from tax in the other contracting country, or the tax rate is extremely low, if any, (vi) apart from the loan agreement under which the interest payment is provided, there is other loan or deposit agreements between the lender and a third party with similarity terms of amount, interest rate and execution date, and (vii) apart from the transfer agreement of copy right, patent or technology under which the license fee is provided, there is other transfer agreement relating to the use right or ownership to the copy right, patent or technology between the company to a third party. The EIT Law, however, also provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “tax resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation rules, “de facto management bodies” are defined as the bodies that have, in substance, overall management control over such aspects as the production and business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the PRC tax authority promulgated the Notice on Determination of Tax Resident Enterprises of Chinese-controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises in accordance with Their De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, to clarify the criteria for determining whether the “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC for enterprises incorporated overseas with controlling shareholders being PRC enterprises. However, Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by offshore individuals, like us. We believe that we are not a “resident enterprise” nor do we meet the criteria under the Circular 82 as the Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises while none of our shareholder is a PRC company or PRC corporate group. However, as all of the our operational management is currently based in the PRC, and we expect them to continue to be located in China, our Company may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise and therefore subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income, which excludes the dividends received directly from another PRC resident enterprise. In case we are required to pay the income tax on capital gains by the relevant PRC tax authorities, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT law and its implementation rules, to the extent that we are considered a “resident enterprise” which is “domiciled” in China, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable by us to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” so long as such “non-resident enterprise” investors do not have an establishment or place of business in China or, despite the existence of such establishment or place of business in China, the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business in China. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares or ADSs by such investors is also subject to a 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and we are considered a “resident enterprise” which is domiciled in China for tax purposes. Additionally, there is a possibility that the relevant PRC tax authorities may take the view that our purpose is that of a holding company and the capital gain derived by our overseas shareholders or ADS holders from the share transfer would be deemed China-sourced income, in which case such capital gain may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. If we are required under the EIT law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders and ADS holders who are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares or ADSs under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” holders of our shares or ADSs would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retrospectively on January 1, 2008. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have strengthened their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the PRC State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed by abusing corporate structures for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial intention. We consistently pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies and have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures. We cannot be assured that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust the capital gains thus causing us to incur additional acquisition costs. We face risks related to natural disasters and health epidemics, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics throughout the world, including in China, as the majority of our customers are manufacturers based in China. Natural disasters and health epidemics in China could significantly disrupt the operations of our suppliers and prevent them from fulfilling orders from us. Sustained natural disasters and health epidemics in China could also significantly reduce the production capacity of us or the demand for our products. There have been several instances of serious natural disasters and health epidemics throughout the world, including in China, in recent years. For example, in May 2008, a major earthquake struck Sichuan Province and certain other parts of China, devastating much of the affected areas and causing tens of thousands of deaths and widespread injuries. In addition, in early 2008, parts of China, in particular its southern, central and eastern regions, experienced what was reportedly the most severe winter weather in the country in half a century, which resulted in significant and extensive damages to factories, power lines, homes, automobiles, crops and other properties, blackouts, transportation and communications disruptions and other losses in the affected areas. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past years and, more recently in 2009, the outbreak of influenza A, also known as H1N1 and the spread of H7N9 avian influenza virus in early 2013. In addition, in March 2011, Japan was struck by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami. While such events in the past have not had an adverse impact on us as of the date of this annual report future natural disasters and health hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 30 Table of Contents Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report may be located in the People’s Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit report included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the applicable laws of the United States and professional standards. Our operations are principally conducted in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities. Accordingly, any audit documentation located in China related to our independent registered public accounting firm’s report included in our filings with the SEC is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by the PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC. The PCAOB remains in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections conducted by the PCAOB outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability to conduct inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit documentation located in China and its related quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to audits outside China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act against the Chinese affiliates of five global accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit work papers, at the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by CSRC. As the administrative proceedings are ongoing, it is impossible to determine their outcome or the consequences thereof to us. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our independent registered public accounting firm or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an initial decision to censure these accounting firms and suspend four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this sanction. Accordingly, the sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six-month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied temporarily the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately result in the delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these global accounting firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in substantial loss to you. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including the following: • announcements of competitive developments; • regulatory developments in China affecting us, our clients or our competitors; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • additions or departures of our executive officers; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and • general economic or political conditions in China or elsewhere in the world. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, the securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets, such as the large decline in share prices in the United States, China and other jurisdictions in late 2008, early 2009 and the second half of 2011. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Future sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs or other equity-related securities in the public market, including sales by any existing shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our ADSs and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs or the availability of our ordinary shares or ADSs for future sale, will have on the trading price of our ADSs. Our controlling shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with your interests. As of the date of this annual report, Mr. Chuanwei Zhang, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 25.5% of our total issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Clarity China Partners, L.P., Clarity MY Co-Invest, L.P. and Clarity China Partners (AI), L.P., or Clarity Investors, collectively, beneficially owned approximately 13.4% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares and ICBC International Investment Management Limited beneficially owned approximately 7.3% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, respectively. As such, they have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Moreover, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. In addition, Mr. Zhang may have potential conflicts of interest with us arising from his ownership interests in Mingyang Electrical and Mingyang Electrical’s immediate holding company, Zhongshan Mingyang Electrical Appliances Co., Ltd., or Mingyang Electrical Appliances, which is controlled by Mr. Zhang. We have recorded significant related parties transactions with these companies during the recent years. As a result, the interests of Mr. Zhang as a controlling shareholder of these entities and the interests of our company may conflict. We cannot assure you that if conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Zhang will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. 32 Table of Contents We are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practice required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. For instance, we are not required to: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have a minimum of three members on our audit committee; • have a compensation committee, a nominating or corporate governance committee; • provide an annual certification by our chief executive officer that he or she is not aware of any non-compliance with any corporate governance rules of the NYSE; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; or • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year. We intend to rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, you are not provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is 21 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you request. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. Although we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses and any applicable taxes and government charges. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities whose offering would require registration under the Securities Act but not so properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not reasonably practicable to distribute certain property. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under the U.S. securities laws any offering of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. 33 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. If the depositary does not distribute the rights, it may, under the deposit agreement, either sell them, if possible, or allow them to lapse. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law, you may have less protection than if you were a shareholder of a company incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. 