D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business in recent years. Our net revenues grew from $134.4 million in 2009 to $381.1 million in 2012 and $444.2 million in 2013. In addition to organic growth, we have also grown through strategic acquisitions and alliances. As of the date of this annual report, we had 31 sales and delivery centers, including 24 in China, two in Japan, three in the United States, one in Canada and one in Taiwan. As of December 31, 2013, we had 18,643 employees, as compared to 7,676 and 14,512 employees as of December 31, 2009 and 2012, respectively. We intend to continue our expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. 6 Table of Contents Our rapid growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: • recruiting, training, developing and retaining sufficient skilled technical, sales and management personnel; • creating and capitalizing upon economies of scale; • managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industries and locations; • maintaining effective oversight of personnel and offices; • coordinating work among offices and project teams and maintaining high resource utilization rates; • integrating new management personnel and expanded operations while preserving our culture and values; • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, human resources, communications and other internal systems, procedures and controls; and • adhering to and further improving our high quality and process execution standards and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction. Moreover, as we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar, and it may require substantial management efforts and skills to mitigate these risks and challenges. As a result of any of these problems associated with expansion, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Adverse changes in the economic environment, either in China or globally, could reduce our clients’ purchases from us and increase pricing pressure, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The IT services industry is particularly sensitive to the economic environment, either in China or globally, and tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic environment, especially for regions in which we and our clients operate, such as North America, Europe, China and Japan. The financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, which have persisted through 2013. China’s economy has also faced challenges as its growth slows down, as well as struggles with inflation, rising labor and other costs, and international currency issues. The financial crisis and other disruptions have led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of those regions showing significant signs of weakness. During an economic downturn, our clients may cancel, reduce or defer their IT spending or change their IT outsourcing strategy, and reduce their purchases from us. The global economic slowdown and any future economic slowdown, and the resulting diminution in IT spending, could also lead to increased pricing pressure from our clients or greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. The occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We face intense competition from onshore and offshore IT services companies, and, if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose clients and our revenues may decline. The market for IT services is highly competitive and we expect competition to persist and intensify. In addition, the PRC IT services market has started to consolidate and we expect such trend to continue. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are industry expertise, breadth and depth of service offerings, quality of the services offered, reputation and track record, marketing and selling skills, scalability of infrastructure and price. In the IT outsourcing market, we face competition from the following major competitors: • Chinese IT services companies, such as ChinaSoft International Ltd., Neusoft Group Ltd., and Pactera Technology International Ltd.; • Indian IT services companies, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp., HCL Technologies, Infosys Technologies Ltd., Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. and Wipro Technologies; • offshore IT services providers in emerging outsourcing destinations with low wage costs such as Southeast Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe; and • in-house IT departments of large corporations. 7 Table of Contents In the international market, we face intensified competition from Indian competitors. To date, we do not typically compete directly with the larger global consulting and outsourcing firms, such as Accenture plc, or Accenture, Cap Gemini S.A., or Capgemini, Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard, and International Business Machines Corp., or IBM, who are typically engaged in conjunction with large global projects. However, we may compete with these firms if they seek smaller engagements, particularly in conjunction with a strategy to enter into or expand their presence in the domestic China market. In addition, the trend towards offshore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will result in new and different competitors entering our markets. In the IT outsourcing market, clients tend to engage multiple outsourcing service providers instead of using an exclusive service provider, which could reduce our revenues to the extent that clients obtain services from other competing providers. Clients may prefer service providers that have facilities located globally or that are based in countries more cost-competitive than China. Our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of factors beyond our control, including the ability of our competitors to recruit, train, develop and retain highly skilled professionals, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services and our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to intense competition for highly skilled personnel, we may fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained personnel to support our operations; as a result, our ability to bid for and obtain new projects may be negatively affected and our revenues could decline. The IT services industry relies on skilled personnel, and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to recruit, train, develop and retain qualified personnel, especially experienced middle and senior level management. The IT services industry in China has experienced significant levels of employee attrition. Our attrition rates were 24.8%, 23.8% and 19.8% per annum in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We may encounter higher attrition rates in the future, particularly if China continues to experience strong economic growth and as we are being involved in a going private transaction led by a consortium including our chairman and chief executive officer Mr. Tianwen Liu. There is significant competition in China for skilled personnel, especially experienced middle and senior level management, with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. Increased competition for these personnel, in the IT industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on us. A significant increase in our attrition rate could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. Additionally, failure to recruit, train, develop and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new personnel successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to retain our key personnel on client projects or find suitable replacements for key personnel upon their departure may lead to termination of some of our client contracts or cancellation of some of our projects, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience, client relationships and reputation of Tianwen Liu, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain new senior executive and key personnel in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members to them. Also, if any of our business development managers, who generally keep a close relationship with our clients, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, and our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, there could be unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by such personnel. Most of our executives and key personnel have entered into employment agreements with us that contain non-competition provisions, non-solicitation and nondisclosure covenants. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and key personnel and us, such non-competition, non-solicitation and nondisclosure provisions might not provide effective protection to us, especially in China, where most of these executive officers and key employees reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of major clients and any loss of business from these clients could reduce our revenues and significantly harm our business. We have derived, and believe that in the foreseeable future we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of major clients. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., or Huawei, and Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, contributed 23% and 9%, 26% and 8%, and 29% and 8% of our net revenues, respectively. In the aggregate, our top five clients accounted for 43.2%, 47.2% and 47.7% of our net revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these and other major clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. However, the volume of work performed for a specific client is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we are generally not our clients’ exclusive IT services provider and we do not have long-term commitments from any of our clients to purchase our services. A major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenues for us in any subsequent year. The IT services we provide to our clients, and the revenues and income from those services, may decline or vary as the type and quantity of IT services we provide changes over time. In addition, our reliance on any individual client for a significant portion of our revenues may give that client a certain degree of leverage (pricing or otherwise) against us when negotiating contracts and terms of service or cooperation. If any of our major clients elects to take advantage of such leverage to change or restructure its outsourcing arrangement with us or even require us to modify certain of our business practices, we will be in a relatively weak position in such negotiation and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, a number of factors other than our performance could cause the loss of or reduction in business or revenues from a client, and these factors are not predictable. For example, a client may decide to reduce spending on technology services or sourcing from us due to a challenging economic environment or other factors, both internal and external, relating to its business. These factors may include corporate restructuring, pricing pressure, changes to its outsourcing strategy and arrangement, switching to another IT services provider or returning work in-house. The loss of any of our major clients, or a significant decrease in the volume of work they outsource to us or the price at which we sell our services to them, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of ISST, which we formed together with Huawei. In January 2013, we began providing a substantial majority of our IT services to our Technology and Communications clients through ISST, which we established together with Huawei. We face a number of risks and uncertainties in connection with this entity including: • Although ISST is our consolidated subsidiary, we only own 75% of ISST. We face initial and ongoing issues and challenges including those related to coordinating with Huawei for our respective personnel, operations and corporate culture; • we may be unable to successfully leverage Huawei’s market position in the Technology and Communication sector to further deepen our domain knowledge and expand our business (both domestically in the PRC and globally). To do so, it requires close coordination with Huawei, its personnel and its customers and may require us to make significant additional investments in personnel and facilities; • Huawei is entitled to reduce its ISST purchase commitments if ISST fails to meet Huawei’s general requirements in terms of service quality, delivery schedule or reasonable level of cost and expenses or if ISST’s non-Huawei client business revenues is less than its Huawei-related revenues by the end of 2015 and for any year thereafter; • subject to its commitment to engage in good faith discussions about additional business volumes for the years after 2015, Huawei has no firm revenue commitments to ISST after 2015. To retain Huawei as a substantial customer after 2015, it requires that we continue to, among other things, promote our capability to satisfactorily meet Huawei’s changing and evolving IT services needs on mutually acceptable commercial terms; 9 Table of Contents • Huawei has certain protective veto rights over ISST’s operations (including veto rights over any change in business scope, increase or decrease of registered capital, material acquisitions, borrowings over a certain threshold, liquidation of ISST, and amendment of ISST’s articles of association); • our and Huawei’s interest in and goals for ISST could significantly diverge over time reducing the anticipated economic benefits of ISST; • our chief executive officer, Mr. Tianwen Liu, also serves as ISST’s chief executive officer, which could distract his attention from our other business; • certain portions of our Technology and Communication business (including certain customer accounts) were not and will not be transferred to ISST due to competitive concerns or other restrictions (including U.S. government restrictions). To address these concerns and restrictions, we operate the remainder of our Technology and Communication business outside ISST, which may increase our overall costs, reduce operating efficiencies and require us to implement and maintain effective lines of separation between ISST’s business and our other businesses. Similarly, these issues and restrictions may make it difficult to attract new, and retain existing, Technology and Communications clients and may make us a less attractive acquisition or investment candidate to third parties; • our ability to engage in businesses potentially competitive to ISST is restricted and any dispute with Huawei regarding our activities, including those we are required to operate outside ISST, could adversely impact our Huawei relationship (including the amount of business we receive from Huawei). In contrast, Huawei currently has one joint venture with one of our competitors and (other than its revenue commitments to ISST) is not contractually prohibited from forming one or more other ventures which may compete with ISST to meet its IT services needs; and • we may be required to terminate ISST or purchase Huawei’s interest in ISST at fair market value prior to the expiration of its 50-year term if certain events happen (including if we materially breach the related investment agreement and such breach is not cured within two months after receiving notice of such breach, or we transfer of our interest in ISST in violation of the related investment agreement, or the revenue of ISST’s non-Huawei client business is less than 50% of our commitment in 2015 due to our intentional misconduct or gross negligence), which could be expensive, disrupt our business and require significant amount of cash that may not be readily available to us. If any of the above events occurs, ISST may not achieve commercial success as we expect and our business, financial condition and result of operations may be adversely impacted. For more information about ISST, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—iSoftStone Technology Service Co., Ltd.” If we are unable to collect our receivables from our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. The timing of invoicing and collection of our accounts receivable under our contracts is impacted by the life cycle of the projects we perform, and related payment milestones which heavily depends on the budget and payment process cycles of our large clients. In some instances certain of our large clients have requested we delay billing to meet their own budgetary and cash management goals or requirements. As of December 31, 2011 2012 and 2013, our net billed accounts receivable totaled $50.7 million, $50.7 million and $62.9 million, respectively, and our net unbilled accounts receivable totaled $102.0 million, $151.5 million and $190.3 million, respectively. Our largest client accounted for 29.5% and 26.6% of our net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and as of December 31, 2013, respectively. Since we generally do not require collateral or other security from our clients, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon estimates, historical experience and other factors surrounding the credit risk of specific clients which also requires us to make certain adjustments and assumptions. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the provision made for doubtful accounts was $4.2 million, $1.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively. However, actual losses on client receivables balance could differ from those that we anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowance. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions, including related turmoil in the global financial system, could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. As a result, an extended delay or default in payment relating to a significant account will have a material and adverse effect on the aging schedule and turnover days of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to collect our receivables from our clients in accordance with the contracts with our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents In many cases our client engagements are not long-term, and our clients may terminate contracts before completion or choose not to renew contracts, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our revenues. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis and are not obligated for any long-term commitments to us. Many of our client contracts can be terminated by our clients with or without cause. There are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control which might lead them to terminate a contract or project with us, including: • financial difficulties for the client; • a change in strategic priorities, resulting in elimination of the impetus for the project or a reduced level of technology spending; • a change in outsourcing strategy resulting in moving more work to the client’s in-house technology departments or to our competitors; • the replacement by our clients of existing software with packaged software supported by licensors; and • mergers and acquisitions or significant corporate restructurings. In addition, some of our client contracts specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the contract, the client has the right to terminate the contract. If any future event triggers any change-of-control provision in our client contracts, these contracts may be terminated, which would result in our loss of revenues in the future. If our clients terminate our contracts before completion or choose not to renew our contracts, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not successful in obtaining and managing increasingly large and complex projects, we may not achieve our growth goals and our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. As our domain knowledge in the industries we serve deepens and our relationships with clients strengthen, more clients have engaged us to undertake increasingly large and complex projects. To successfully obtain and manage larger and more complex projects, we need to establish closer relationships with our clients and develop a thorough understanding of their operations. In addition, we may face a number of challenges managing larger and more complex projects, including maintaining high quality control and process execution standards and controlling costs. In addition, we must maintain close client contact and high levels of client satisfaction, while at the same time maintaining continuity in personnel engaged in a particular project. Our ability to successfully obtain and manage larger and more complex projects depends significantly on the skills of our management personnel and professionals, some of whom do not have experience managing large or complex projects. Larger and more complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements. These larger and complex projects present cash flow risks and challenges. Related cash collections are usually linked to our successfully achieving specified milestones. However, over the life of these typically longer term projects we are often required to advance employee, subcontracting and/or other costs long before we collect related cash payments from our clients. If we are not able to successfully obtain engagements for larger and more complex projects, we may not achieve our growth goals. Even if we are successful in obtaining such engagements, a failure by us to effectively manage these larger and more complex projects could cause us to lose business and may adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. The growth and success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and in the industries we focus. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future growth and success depend significantly on our ability to anticipate developments in IT services, and offer and develop new product and service lines to meet our clients’ evolving needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely manner, or if we do respond, the services or technologies we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. We have been investing in service capabilities (such as our recent initiatives: Smart City Solutions, Data and Business Intelligence Services, Mobility Services and Cloud Services) that we believe will drive future growth and enable us to provide higher value-added services and address broader business needs of our clients. Our development of new services and technologies may involve significant upfront investments and the failure of these services and technologies may result in our being unable to recover these investments, in part or in full. In addition, as we introduce new services or technologies (such as our Smart City Solutions), we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar, and it may require substantial management efforts and skills to mitigate these risks and challenges. As a result of any of these problems associated with our new services or technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Further, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services uncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, new technologies may be developed that allow our clients to more cost-effectively perform the services that we provide, thereby reducing demand for our services. Should we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing IT services market or if we fail to develop suitable services to meet the evolving and increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in entering into strategic alliances or identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could impede our growth and negatively affect our revenues and net income. We have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic alliances and strategic acquisition opportunities to increase our scale and geographic presence, expand our service offerings and capabilities and enhance our industry and technical expertise. However, it is possible that in the future we may not succeed in identifying suitable alliances or acquisition candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to consummate these arrangements on terms commercially acceptable to us or to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in the case of acquisitions. Many of our competitors are likely to be seeking to enter into similar arrangements or acquire the same targets that we are looking to enter into or acquire. Such competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be more attractive to our strategic partners or be able to outbid us for the targets. In addition, we may also be unable to timely deploy our existing cash balances to effect a potential acquisition, as use of cash balances located onshore in China may require specific governmental approvals or result in withholding and other tax payments. If we are unable to enter into suitable strategic alliances or complete suitable acquisitions, our growth strategy may be impeded and our revenues and net income could be negatively affected. If we fail to integrate or manage acquired companies efficiently, or if the acquired companies do not perform to our expectations, we may not be able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, and our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. Historically, we have expanded our service capabilities and gained new clients through selective acquisitions and alliances. Our ability to successfully integrate an acquired entity and realize the benefits of any acquisition requires, among other things, successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel. Challenges we face in the acquisition and integration process include: • integrating operations, services and personnel in a timely and efficient manner; • unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities; • generating sufficient revenue and net income to offset acquisition costs; • potential loss of, or harm to, employee or client relationships; • properly structuring our acquisition consideration and any related post-acquisition earn-outs and successfully monitoring any earn-out calculations and payments; • retaining key senior management and key sales and marketing and research and development personnel; • potential incompatibility of solutions, services and technology or corporate cultures; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; • integrating and documenting processes and controls; • entry into unfamiliar markets; and • increased complexity from potentially operating additional geographically dispersed sites, particularly if we acquire a company or business with facilities or operations outside of China. In addition, the primary value of many potential targets in the outsourcing industry lies in their skilled professionals and established client relationships. Transitioning these types of assets to our business can be particularly difficult due to different corporate cultures and values, geographic distance and other intangible factors. For example, some newly acquired employees may decide not to work with us or to leave shortly after their move to our company and some acquired clients may decide to discontinue their commercial relationships with us. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, including causing us to incur significant one-time expenses and write-offs, and make it more difficult and complex for our management to effectively manage our operations. If we are not able to successfully integrate an acquired entity and its operations and to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisition, our overall growth and profitability plans may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If we do not succeed in attracting new clients for our services and/or growing revenues from existing clients, we may not achieve our revenue growth goals. We plan to significantly expand the number of clients we serve to diversify our client base and grow our revenues. Revenues from a new client often rise quickly over the first several years following our initial engagement as we expand the services that we provide to that client. Therefore, obtaining new clients is important for us to achieve rapid revenue growth. We also plan to grow revenues from our existing clients by identifying and selling additional services to them. Our ability to attract new clients, as well as our ability to grow revenues from existing clients, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to offer high quality services at competitive prices, the strength of our competitors and the capabilities of our sales and marketing teams. Our consolidated subsidiary ISST established together with Huawei may also adversely impact our relationship with our other clients. If we are not able to continue to attract new clients or to grow revenues from our existing clients in the future, we may not be able to grow our revenues as quickly as we anticipate or at all. As a result of our significant growth and acquisitions in recent years, evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenue and maintain profitability from our operations. Our business has grown and evolved significantly in recent years, through both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Our significant growth and several acquisitions in recent years make it difficult to evaluate our historical performance and make a period-to-period comparison of our historical operating results less meaningful. We may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate or maintain profitability in future periods. Furthermore, certain members of our senior management team have worked together for a relatively short period of time, and it may be difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness, on an individual or collective basis, and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results or our historic rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. You should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and challenges encountered by a company seeking to grow and expand in a competitive industry that is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. These risks and challenges include, among others: • the uncertainties associated with our ability to continue our growth and maintain profitability; • preserving our competitive position in the IT services industry in China; • offering consistent and high-quality services to retain and attract clients; • implementing our strategy and modifying it from time to time to respond effectively to competition and changes in client preferences; • managing our expanding operations, including the integration of our past and future acquisitions, and successfully expanding our solution and service offerings; • responding in a timely manner to technological or other changes in the IT services industry; • managing risks associated with intellectual property; and • recruiting, training, developing and retaining qualified managerial and other personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks or challenges, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks associated with having a long selling and implementation cycle for our services that require us to make significant resource commitments prior to realizing revenues for those services. We have a long selling cycle for our technology services (especially for those related to our smart city projects), which requires significant investment of capital, human resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them on the value of our services and our ability to meet their requirements. Therefore, our selling cycle is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients’ decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house resources) and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes. For certain clients, we may begin work and incur substantial costs prior to concluding the contract. 13 Table of Contents Implementing our services also involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology, thereby further delaying the implementation process. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our resource utilization levels and continue to improve our productivity levels. Our gross margin and profitability are significantly impacted by our utilization levels of human resources as well as other resources, such as computers, IT infrastructure and office space, and our ability to increase our productivity levels. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent years through organic growth and external acquisitions, which has resulted in a significant increase in our headcount and fixed overhead costs. We may face difficulties maintaining high levels of utilization, especially for our newly established or newly acquired businesses and resources. The master service agreements with our clients typically do not impose a minimum or maximum purchase amount and allow our clients to place service orders from time to time at their discretion. Client demand may fall to zero or surge to a level that we cannot cost-effectively satisfy. Although we try to use all commercially reasonable efforts to accurately estimate service orders and resource requirements from our clients, we may overestimate or underestimate, which may result in unexpected cost and strain or redundancy of our human capital and adversely impact our utilization levels. In addition, some of our professionals are specially trained to work for specific clients or on specific projects and some of our sales and delivery center facilities are dedicated to specific clients or specific projects. Our ability to continually increase our productivity levels depends significantly on our ability to recruit, train, develop and retain high-performing professionals, staff projects appropriately and optimize our mix of services and delivery methods. If we experience a slowdown or stoppage of work for any client or on any project for which we have dedicated professionals or facilities, we may not be able to efficiently reallocate these professionals and facilities to other clients and projects to keep their utilization and productivity levels high. If we are not able to maintain high resource utilization levels without corresponding cost reductions or price increases, our profitability will suffer. A majority of our revenue is generated, and will in the future continue to be generated, on a project basis with a fixed price; we may not be able to accurately estimate costs and determine resource requirements in relation to our projects, which would reduce our margins and profitability. A majority of our revenue is generated, and will in the future continue to be generated, from fees we receive for our projects with a fixed price. Our projects often involve complex technologies, entail the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations, utilizing workforces with different skill sets and competencies and geographically distributed service centers, and must be completed within compressed timeframes and meet client requirements that are subject to change and increasingly stringent. In addition, some of our fixed-price projects are multi-year projects that require us to undertake significant projections and planning related to resource utilization and costs. If we fail to accurately assess the time and resources required for completing projects and to price our projects profitably, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increases in wages for professionals in China could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and could reduce our profit margins. Our most significant costs are the salaries and other compensation expenses for our professionals and other employees. Wage costs for professionals in China are lower than those in more developed countries and India. However, because of rapid economic growth, increased productivity levels, and increased competition for skilled employees in China, wages for highly skilled employees in China, in particular middle- and senior-level managers, are increasing at a faster rate than in the past. We may need to increase the levels of employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive in attracting and retaining the quality and number of employees that our business requires. Increases in the wages and other compensation we pay our employees in China could reduce our competitive advantage unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our professionals as well as the prices we can charge for our services. In addition, any appreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies will cause an increase in the relative wage levels in China, which could further reduce our competitive advantage and adversely impact our profit margin. For more information relating to the impact of fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi to our business, please see “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi and other currencies may have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment.” 14 Table of Contents Our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we cease to enjoy, or breach the restrictions imposed for, the financial incentives and subsidies provided by certain PRC government agencies. We have in the past received financial incentives and subsidies granted by various PRC government authorities in support of our business. Our net income (loss) for 2011, 2012 and 2013 was $19.0 million, $22.1 million and $(4.1) million, respectively. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we recognized government subsidies as a reduction to cost of revenue and expenses, primarily cost of revenues, of $12.3 million, $17.0 million and $12.6 million, respectively, and recognized government subsidies as other income of $1.8 million, $1.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively. However, we cannot assure you of the continued availability of such financial incentives and subsidies in the future. The discontinuation of these financial incentives and subsidies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future financial incentives, grants and subsidies may impose certain requirements and restrictions on our business operations. These financial incentives, grants and subsidies, for example, might impose development time and local use requirements for certain projects funded by a government incentive, grant or subsidy, which can potentially limit the manner that we operate and expand our business. We have an existing dispute with iCarnegie Inc. regarding certain licensing arrangements. If we do not win the related legal proceedings or settle such dispute on commercially acceptable terms, we may be exposed to monetary or other liabilities, which may harm our reputation, involve significant cash payments and adversely impact the market price of our ADSs. In 2009, in cooperation with the Wuxi City government, we established the iCarnegie-iSoftStone training center (currently owned 20% by us). Some programs provided at the iCarnegie-iSoftStone training center in 2009 utilized the technical curriculum and professional certifications developed and maintained by iCarnegie Inc. and licensed to us pursuant to a course license agreement first entered into in 2009. We had been negotiating with iCarnegie Inc. new cooperation arrangements, which were expected to replace the existing licensing arrangements including a minimum enrollment fee requirement. In October 2012, iCarnegie Inc. submitted a demand for arbitration to the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration hearing took place from March 31, 2014 through April 4, 2014. As of the arbitration date, iCarnegie was claiming approximately $11.1 million (comprised of $5.9 million in licensing fees that was allegedly due from us to iCarnegie Inc. pursuant to the course license agreement plus interest at a contractual rate of 18% per annum). In the arbitration, we asserted defenses and counter claims. Please see “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. With four dedicated internal trainings centers in Wuxi, Tianjin, Guangzhou and Dalian, we do not currently rely on the iCarnegie Inc. arrangements to attract, train and retain our personnel. However, if we do not win the legal proceedings or determine to settle the disputes with iCarnegie Inc. or if iCarnegie Inc. seeks indemnity from us in connection with any related disputes it may have with the Wuxi City government related to the training center, we may be exposed to monetary or other liabilities. The arbitration process may incur significant expenses and divert management’s attention from day-to-day company operations. Any adverse outcome of the arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our cash position, results of operation, reputation and the market price of our ADSs. Our subcontracting practices may expose us to technical uncertainties, potential liabilities and reputational harm. In order to meet our personnel needs, increase workforce flexibility, and improve pricing competitiveness, we subcontract portions of certain projects to third parties. Despite certain advantages of subcontracting, such arrangements also give rise to a number of risks. Although we try to source competent and credible third parties as our subcontractors, they may not be able to deliver the level of service that our clients expect us to deliver. Furthermore, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our subcontractors, but we cannot guarantee that they will not breach the confidentiality of our clients and misappropriate our or our clients’ proprietary information and technology in the course of providing service. We, as the party to the contract with the client, are directly responsible for the losses our subcontractors cause our clients. Under the subcontracting agreements we enter, our subcontractors promise to indemnify us for damages caused by their breach, but we may be unable to collect under these agreements. Moreover, their breaches may damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to acquire new business in the future. In some limited cases and despite internal restrictions designed to prevent these actions, we may have subcontracted certain contractual obligations to third parties without first obtaining our clients’ prior written consent under the related client contracts. Although we have not been subject to adverse claims by our clients for these actions, we cannot assure you that these actions would not result in improper disclosure of client information, or result in client dissatisfaction or client loss. 15 Table of Contents The international nature of our business exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our business throughout the world in multiple locations. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with our parent holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and intermediate and operating subsidiaries incorporated in China, Hong Kong, the United States, Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany and Korea. As a result, we are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • significant currency fluctuations between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we transact business; • legal uncertainty owing to the overlap and inconsistencies of different legal regimes, problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders and the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as scrutiny of transfer pricing arrangements by authorities in the countries in which we operate; • current and future tariffs and other trade barriers, including restrictions on technology and data transfers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • natural disasters, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan; and • terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our net revenues and results of operations are affected by seasonal trends. Our business is affected by seasonal trends. In particular, our net revenues are typically progressively higher in the second, third and fourth quarters of each year compared to the first quarter of each year due to seasonal trends, such as: (i) a general slowdown in business activities and a reduced number of working days for our professionals during the first quarter of each year as a result of the Chinese New Year holiday period, and (ii) our customers in general tend to spend their IT budgets in the second half of the year and in particular the fourth quarter. Other factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, changes in general economic conditions in China and the impact of unforeseen events. We believe that our net revenues will continue to be affected in the future by seasonal trends. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance, and we believe it is more meaningful to evaluate our business on an annual basis. We may be forced to reduce the prices of our services due to increased competition and reduced bargaining power with our clients, which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. The services outsourcing industry in China is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in the frequent introduction of new services and significant price competition from our competitors. We may be unable to offset the effect of declining average sales prices through increased sales volumes and/or reductions in our costs. Furthermore, we may be forced to reduce the prices of our services in response to offerings made by our competitors. Finally, we may not have the same level of bargaining power we have enjoyed in the past when it comes to negotiating for the prices of our services. Our ability to expand our business, procure new contracts, enter into beneficial business arrangements or leverage our skills and knowledge may be affected by non-competition clauses in our agreements with existing clients. Certain of our existing client contracts have non-competition clauses, which restrict us from providing services to customers of our existing clients. Many of our client contracts contain clauses that restrict our employees working for a particular client from providing services to the competitors of those clients, and/or in similar assignments to third parties even if they are not competitors of those clients. Our contracts with some of our clients provide that, during the term of the contract and for up to a 12-month period thereafter and under specified circumstances, we may not accept any assignments from, or render services to, those clients’ customers. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in a specific industry or market in which we have expertise and may adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. 16 Table of Contents Under certain contracts, we are prohibited from using any skills and techniques used for a certain client in other projects. Such clauses may restrict our ability to develop other clients in a commercially desirable way and to extract the maximum value from the skills and knowledge we have accumulated while providing service. If we cause disruptions to our clients’ businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, and as a result our profits may be substantially reduced. If our professionals make errors in the course of delivering services to our clients or fail to consistently meet service requirements of a client, these errors or failures could disrupt the client’s business, which could result in a reduction in our net revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a contractual requirement could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. The services we provide are often critical to our clients’ businesses. Certain of our client contracts require us to comply with security obligations including maintaining network security and back-up data, ensuring our network is virus-free, maintaining business continuity planning procedures, and verifying the integrity of employees that work with our clients by conducting background checks. Any failure in a client’s system or breach of security relating to the services we provide to the client could damage our reputation or result in a claim for substantial damages against us. Any significant failure of our equipment or systems, or any major disruption to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, reduce our revenues and harm our business. Under our contracts with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is in some cases limited to a certain percentage of contract price. Such limitations may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under our contracts. We currently do not have commercial general or public liability insurance. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if such assertions against us are unsuccessful, we may incur reputational harm and substantial legal fees. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and confidential information, whether through our employees or otherwise. We are typically required to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client data in connection with the services we provide. Under the terms of our client contracts, we are required to keep such information strictly confidential. We use network security technologies, surveillance equipment and other methods to protect sensitive and confidential client data. We also require our employees and subcontractors to enter into confidentiality agreements to limit access to and distribution of our clients’ sensitive and confidential information as well as our own trade secrets. We can give no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to protect our clients’ confidential information. If our clients’ proprietary rights are misappropriated by our employees or our subcontractors or their employees, in violation of any applicable confidentiality agreements or otherwise, our clients may consider us liable for those acts and seek damages and compensation from us. Any such acts could cause us to lose existing and future business and damage our reputation in the market. In addition, we currently do not have any insurance coverage for mismanagement or misappropriation of such information by our subcontractors or employees. Any litigation with respect to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and confidential information might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of intellectual property of our clients, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on software licenses from our clients with respect to certain projects. To protect proprietary information and other intellectual property of our clients, we require our employees, subcontractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide effective protection for trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights and confidentiality in China may not be as effective as that in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of proprietary technology of our clients. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of proprietary technologies of our clients could enable third parties to benefit from our or our clients’ technologies without paying us and our clients for doing so, and our clients may hold us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us, which could harm our business and competitive position. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could cause a loss of clients, reduce our revenues and harm our competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, software registration, anti-unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2013, we had seven patents, 256 software copyrights, nine trademarks and 15 domain names registered in China; six trademarks and one domain name registered in the United States; one domain name registered in Japan; 10 trademarks and two domain names registered in Taiwan; and we had 10 patent applications and three software copyright applications in China. A patent filing may not result in an issued patent and an issued patent may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our current limited patent protection may limit our ability to stop any unauthorized use of our software or other intellectual property. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, employees, clients, subcontractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators are required to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements might not provide effective protection for the trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other developed countries, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying, other misappropriation, or negligent or accidental leakage of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without obtaining our consent or paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Though we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our technology and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. We typically indemnify clients who purchase our services and solutions against potential infringement of intellectual property rights underlying our services and solutions, which subject us to the risk of indemnification claims. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our service offerings may make it difficult for us to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. Also, we may be unaware of intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by third parties which may damage our ability to rely on such technologies. We are subject to additional risks as a result of our recent acquisitions and the hiring of new employees who may misappropriate intellectual property from their former employers. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology involving the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, or re-brand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. Any intellectual property claim or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and any failure by us to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to grow our business and develop or enhance our service offerings to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. We believe that our current cash and cash flow from operations should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. In connection with the formation of ISST together with Huawei, we agreed that ISST will not pay dividends for the first three years after its inception, which restricts our ability to get cash out of ISST. In addition, we acquired our Beijing headquarters building in 2013 in exchange for cash payments totaling $52.3 million and the assumption of $31.6 million in liabilities. As a result, we may need to raise additional capital to fund our other businesses. The recent and furture acquisitions may require us to raise additional cash to fund our acquired business. If our cash resources cannot satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of technology services outsourcing companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations and financial condition; • PRC government regulation of foreign investment in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC government policies relating to the borrowing and remittance outside China of foreign currency. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to grow our business and develop or enhance our product and service offerings to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares is held by a small number of our existing shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. Our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Tianwen Liu, beneficially owned approximately 10.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F. Accordingly, Mr. Liu has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, including discouraging a competing proposal under the Merger Agreement (as defined below), which in turn could reduce the price of our ADSs. Mr. Liu’s interests may be different than the interests of other shareholders on these matters. In particular, on April 18, 2014, we entered into the Merger Agreement relating to a “going private” transaction. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company — Going Private Transaction.” Immediately following the merger contemplated thereby, our company, as the surviving company, will be benefically owned by Mr. Liu, among others. In connection with the proposed merger, Mr. Liu and certain of our other shareholders and members of our senior management, who we refer to collectively as the “Rollover Shareholders,” agreed pursuant to a support agreement to vote all of ordinary shares they beneficially owned (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs), which represented approximately 24.02% of our outstanding ordinary shares (excluding outstanding options and restricted share units as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F), in favor of the authorization and approval of the Merger Agreement and the merger. However, there can be no assurance that the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the merger, will be approved by sufficient affirmative vote of our shareholders or consummated on a timely basis, if at all. Potential uncertainty or disputes involving the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs. See “Risk Factors — Risks relaed to Our ADSs — There can be no assurance that the agreement and plan of merger entered into with various parties on April 18, 2014 and the going private transaction contemplated thereby will be approved by our shareholders or successfully consummated. Potential uncertainty or disputes involving the going private transaction may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs.” 19 Table of Contents Failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses could result in breaches of contracts with our clients. Failure to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could result in our being unable to effectively perform our services. Our clients’ business operations are subject to certain rules and regulations in China or elsewhere. Our clients may contractually require that we perform our services in a manner that would enable them to comply with such rules and regulations. Failure to perform our services in such a manner could result in breaches of contract with our clients and, in some limited circumstances, civil fines and criminal penalties for us. In addition, we are required under various Chinese laws to obtain and maintain permits and licenses to conduct our business. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services, we may not be able to provide services to existing clients or be able to attract new clients and could lose revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may incur losses resulting from business interruptions resulting from occurrence of natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks or events. Our operational facilities may be damaged in natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, heavy rains, sand storms, tsunamis and cyclones, or other events such as fires. Such natural disasters or other events may lead to disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of outsourcing services could damage our relationships with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expenses to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters or other events may also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. We currently do not have insurance against business interruptions. In March 2011, Japan was struck by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake, which resulted in a tsunami and damaged nuclear power plants, among other negative effects. In 2011, our net revenues from Japan grew slower than our other geographic markets as a result of certain projects being postponed from 2011 to 2012 due to the earthquake and tsunami. The existing and potential further radiation release from the damaged nuclear power plants in the earthquake and tsunami may result in additional adverse effects on our operations and those of our clients in Japan in the future. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H7N9, or avian flu, H1N1, or swine flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak. Any prolonged occurrence of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the world may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our facilities, which could severely disrupt our operations, the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of these events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi and other currencies may have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment. Our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars. However, a majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Our exposure to foreign exchange risk primarily relates to the limited cash denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of each entity and limited revenue contracts dominated in Japanese Yen in certain PRC operating entities. We do not believe that we currently have any significant direct foreign exchange risk and have not hedged exposures denominated in foreign currencies or any other derivative financial instruments. However, the value of our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi because the primary value of our business is effectively denominated in Renminbi, while the ADSs are traded in U.S. dollars. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rate and achieve certain exchange rate targets, and through such intervention kept the U.S. dollar-Renminbi exchange rate relatively stable for almost two years from July 2008. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government would further reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. Since that time, the Renminbi has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar. The People’s Bank of China recently announced that it expanded the daily RMB against U.S. dollar trading band of the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.5% to 1% as of April 16, 2012, to allow Renminbi to move more freely and better reflect market supply and demand. The wider trading band of the exchange rate, as well as other more flexible currency policies that may be adopted by the PRC government could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we may rely on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of any dividends payable on our ADSs in foreign currency terms. 20 Table of Contents For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Furthermore, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. We incurred net foreign exchange losses of $0.5 million, $0.6 million and $0.3 million in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign exchange losses in the future. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Legislation in certain countries in which we have clients, particularly the United States, Japan and various European countries, may restrict companies in those countries from outsourcing work to us. IT offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive issue in the United States, Europe and Japan. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States and Europe have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in their home countries. A number of U.S. states have passed legislation that restricts state government entities from outsourcing certain work to offshore service providers. Other U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, would provide tax disincentives for offshore outsourcing or require disclosure of jobs outsourced abroad. Similar legislation could be enacted in Europe, Japan and other countries in which we have clients. Any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting or discouraging offshore outsourcing by companies in the United States, Europe, Japan or other countries in which we have clients could adversely impact our business operations and financial results. In addition, from time to time there has been publicity about negative experiences associated with offshore outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data. As a result, current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged in transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing in response to political pressure or negative publicity would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of onshore facilities and adversely affect our business and financial results. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States or other countries, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. The vast majority of our employees are Chinese nationals. Some of our projects require a portion of the work to be undertaken at our clients’ facilities which are sometimes located outside of China. The ability of our professionals to work in the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan, Korea and other countries outside of China depends on their ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. Historically, the process for obtaining visas for PRC nationals to certain countries, including the United States and Japan, has been lengthy and cumbersome. We have in the past experienced delays and rejections when applying for business visas to the United States for some of our personnel. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. Particularly given the recent global economic slowdown, it is possible that there could be a change in the existing laws or the enactment of new legislation imposing restrictions on the deployment of work visa holders at client locations, which may adversely impact our ability to do business in the jurisdictions in which we have clients. However, it is generally difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or maintaining business visas for our employees. Our reliance on visas for a number of employees makes us vulnerable to such changes and variations as it affects our ability to staff projects with professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our employees or we may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining such visas in which case we may not be able to provide services to our clients on a timely and cost-effective basis or manage our sales and delivery centers as efficiently as we otherwise could, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Disruptions in telecommunications or significant failure in our IT systems could harm our service model, which could result in a reduction of our revenue. A significant element of our business strategy is to continue to leverage and expand our sales and delivery centers strategically located in China. We believe that the use of a strategically located network of sales and delivery centers will provide us with cost advantages, the ability to attract highly skilled personnel in various regions of the country and the world, and the ability to service clients on a regional and global basis. Part of our service model is to maintain active voice and data communications, financial control, 21 Table of Contents accounting, customer service and other data processing systems between our main offices in Beijing, our clients’ offices, and our other deliveries centers and support facilities. Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these IT or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. Loss of all or part of the systems for a period of time could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time which, in turn, could lead to a reduction of our revenue or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and business reputation. We may also be liable to our clients for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter our clients from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Data networks are also vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee could misappropriate our clients’ proprietary information or data, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us against losses. Although we maintain professional liability insurance and property insurance coverage for certain of our facilities and equipment, we do not have any loss of data or business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. If any claims for injury are brought against us, or if we experience any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster, we might incur substantial costs and diversion of resources. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant share-based compensation expenses which could adversely impact our net income. We have granted certain options, restricted shares and share units under our share incentive plans and granted nonvested shares in connection with certain other share-based compensation arrangements in the past. In addition, we have reduced the exercise price of certain outstanding employee options in the past. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Share Option Plan.” As a result, we have recorded $9.3 million, $11.1 million and $12.8 million as share-based compensation expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. U.S. GAAP prescribes how we account for share-based compensation which may have an adverse or negative impact on our results of operations or the price of our ADSs. U.S. GAAP requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing share options, share units, restricted shares and nonvested shares. However, if we do not grant share options, share units, restricted shares or nonvested shares, or reduce the number of share options, share units, restricted shares or nonvested shares we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more share options, share units, restricted shares or nonvested shares or other share-based compensation arrangements to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and our competitive position. The majority of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. Although the PRC economy has been 22 Table of Contents transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economic growth through direct allocation of resources, monetary and tax policies, and a host of other government policies such as those that encourage or restrict investment in certain industries by foreign investors, control the exchange between the Renminbi and foreign currencies, and regulate the growth of the general or specific market. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Furthermore, as the PRC economy has become increasingly linked with the global economy, China is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world. The economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or bolster China’s economic growth could materially affect our business. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and market demand for our outsourcing services. Such developments could adversely affect our businesses, lead to reduction in demand for our services and adversely affect our competitive position. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been building a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries established in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities (including local government authorities), thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, clients and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including any inability to enforce our contracts, together with any development or interpretation of PRC law that is adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other more developed countries. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE on December 14, 2010. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear, with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, advised us that because we completed our restructuring for the initial public offering before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, and iSoftStone Information Technology (Group) Co., Ltd., or iSoftStone WFOE, was not established through merger or acquisition, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE did not require CSRC approval. A copy of Han Kun Law Offices’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 in connection with our initial public offering, which is available at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. 23 Table of Contents If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Any uncertainties and negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could also have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Contractual arrangements we have entered into may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or our consolidated affiliated entities owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contractual arrangement between iSoftStone WFOE and our affiliated PRC entity, Beijing iSoftStone, were not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that our affiliated PRC entity adjust its taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our affiliated PRC entity’s tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject our affiliated PRC entity to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. The PRC enterprise income tax law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its affiliates to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s length principles. As a result, our contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity may result in adverse tax consequences to us. We face uncertainty regarding the PRC tax reporting obligations and consequences for certain indirect transfers of the stock of our operating company. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, or Circular 698, where a foreign investor transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by way of the sale of equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor should report such Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to avoid PRC tax, they will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise shall provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. At present, the PRC tax authorities will neither confirm nor deny that they would enforce Circular 698, in conjunction with other tax collection and tax withholding rules, to make claims against our PRC subsidiary as being indirectly liable for unpaid taxes, if any, arising from Indirect Transfers by shareholders who did not obtain their shares in the public offering of our shares. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in 2005 known as Circular 75 that requires PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with an appropriate local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an offshore special purpose company, for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. When a PRC resident contributes the assets or equity interests it holds in a PRC company into the offshore special purpose company, or engages in overseas financing after contributing such assets or equity interests into the offshore special purpose company, such PRC resident must modify its SAFE registration in light of its interest in the offshore special purpose company and any change thereof. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. 24 Table of Contents We are committed to complying with the Circular 75 requirements and to ensuring that our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents comply with them. We believe that all of our current PRC citizen or resident shareholders and beneficial owners are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable SAFE Circular 75 requirements. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with the Circular 75 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, Circular 75 or other related regulations. Failure by any such shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with Circular 75 could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission promulgated a rule in 2004 requiring its approval for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. However, there exist extensive uncertainties as to the interpretation of this rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment and, in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been either approved by the National Development and Reform Commission or challenged by the National Development and Reform Commission based on the absence of its approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for the approval of the National Development and Reform Commission for their investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities if we or our domestic employees or directors fail to comply with the PRC regulations relating to employee stock incentive plans adopted by companies for domestic employees. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, or the PBOC Regulation. On January 5, 2007, the SAFE issued the Implementation Rules for the PBOC Regulation. Both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans of overseas-listed companies with domestic employees’ participation require approval from the SAFE or its local branch. In February 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule, which terminated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company issued by the SAFE on March 28, 2007. Under the Stock Option Rule, domestic employees who participate in any stock incentive plan, including employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans in an overseas-listed company, are required to register with the relevant local SAFE branch and complete certain other procedures through a PRC agent. Under the Stock Option Rule: (i) domestic employees include PRC citizens (inclusive of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan nationals) and foreign nationals who have continuously resided in China for at least a year, and (ii) a PRC agent may be a domestic company participating in the stock incentive plan or a domestic institution that is qualified to engage in asset custodian business and has been duly designated by a domestic company. We are an overseas-listed company and as a result we and our domestic employees who have been granted share options or shares under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan, 2009 Share Incentive Plan and 2010 Performance Incentive Plan are subject to the Stock Option Rule. We have completed registration with the Beijing SAFE according to the Stock Option Rule, and regularly update such registration to reflect exercise of options by our employees from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation has issued certain circulars concerning employee share options. Pursuant to these circulars, our employees working in China who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have an obligation to file documents related to employee share options with the relevant tax authorities and withhold individual income taxes resulting from the exercise of their share options. If our employees fail to pay and we fail to withhold their income taxes, we may face sanctions imposed by tax authorities or other relevant PRC government authorities. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Share Options.” PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of future offerings to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds from any future offerings, as an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and controlled PRC affiliate, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or controlled PRC affiliate are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. Loans by us to our controlled PRC affiliate, Beijing iSoftStone, which is a domestic PRC entity, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. 25 Table of Contents We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries through capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or controlled PRC affiliate or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of the public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the foreign-invested enterprise’s approved business scope. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or controlled PRC affiliate or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we receive from the public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to use our revenues effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. The PRC government imposes control on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive a majority of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. Restrictions on currency conversion imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our expenditures denominated in foreign currencies or our business activities outside of China. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to current account transactions, which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Pursuant to the relevant regulations, a company applying for the remittance of dividends should provide to the bank handling the remittance: (i) proof of taxes paid, (ii) an audit report on the status of dividends, (iii) the relevant company’s foreign exchange registration certificate, (iv) a capital verification report issued by an accounting firm, and (v) an audit report on the company’s financial condition during the current year. These procedural requirements generally do not pose any risk to a wholly foreign-owned company’s ability to remit dividends to its offshore parent. Although the Renminbi has been fully convertible for current account transaction since 1996, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to capital account transactions, which include among other things investments, loans and acquisitions of land and other fixed assets overseas, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In particular, if iSoftStone WFOE borrows foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, it must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that the registration process will not delay or prevent our conversion of Renminbi for use outside of China. The discontinuation or revocation of the preferential tax treatments and government incentives available to us could decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by PRC income tax laws and regulations. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in the PRC were generally subject to a 30% national and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. Various preferential tax treatments promulgated by national tax authorities were available to foreign-invested enterprises or high or new technology enterprises located in certain high-tech zones of China. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law effective on January 1, 2008, the PRC has adopted a uniform enterprise income tax rate of 25% for all PRC enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. 26 Table of Contents However, the Enterprise Income Tax Law also permits enterprises to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, under which enterprises established before the promulgation date of the Enterprise Income Tax Law that were granted tax holidays under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their tax holidays until their expiration. The Enterprise Income Tax Law also introduced a new preferential rate of 15% for high-tech enterprises. iSoftStone WFOE and Shanghai Kangshi Information System Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Kangshi, obtained the qualification certificates of high-tech enterprises under the Enterprise Income Tax Law in 2008 with a valid period of three years from 2008 to 2010. As a result, iSoftStone WFOE and Shanghai Kangshi are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification as a high-tech enterprise. iSoftStone WFOE and Shanghai Kangshi renewed their respective qualification certificate of high-tech enterprises in 2011. The continued qualification of the high-tech enterprise status is subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review and renewal by the relevant government authorities in China. In addition, iSoftStone WFOE, as an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, is entitled to enjoy its exemption of enterprise income tax in 2008 and 50% tax reduction in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The local tax bureau has confirmed that the 50% reduction may be applied to the 15% preferential rate that iSoftStone WFOE enjoys as a qualified high-tech enterprise, notwithstanding a tax circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation that deals with whether these tax benefits are mutually exclusive. We cannot assure you that the tax authorities will not change their position. As a result of the foregoing preferential tax treatments and its continuous qualification as a high-tech enterprise, iSoftStone WFOE was exempted from enterprise income tax for 2008, and was subject to enterprise income taxes of 7.5% for the years 2009 to 2011 and 15% for the years 2012 and 2013. Shanghai Kangshi as a qualified high-tech enterprise, was subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 15% from 2008 to 2013. Other PRC subsidiaries of ours also enjoy a variety of tax benefits. See “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Taxes and Incentives—China.” The PRC tax policies, interpretations, and practices regarding the overlap, phase-out, and transition of preferential treatments are subject to continuous change and uncertainty. As such, we cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries will continue to qualify as high-tech enterprise under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, enjoy preferential treatments under the phase-out rules, not encounter any challenges regarding past application of such treatments, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the PRC government has provided various incentives to companies in the software industry and to certain qualified technology related transactions in order to encourage developments of the software and technology related industries in China. A number of our PRC subsidiaries currently receive value-added tax, or VAT, refunds and business tax exemptions in addition to the preferential enterprise income tax treatments as described above. Incentives granted to us by PRC governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. The discontinuation or revocation of incentives currently available to us may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The Enterprise Income Tax Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered PRC tax resident enterprises and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% PRC enterprise income tax rate on their global income and tax reporting obligations. In addition, a tax circular, or Circular 82, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-controlled enterprises established outside of China as resident enterprises clarified that dividends and other income paid by such resident enterprises will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. Circular 82 also subjects such resident enterprises to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation rules to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, a de facto management body is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, Circular 82 details that certain Chinese-controlled enterprises will be classified as resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. On July 27, 2011, the State Administration of Taxation issued a supplemental tax circular, or Bulletin 45, which became effective on September 1, 2011, to provide further guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. Bulletin 45 clarifies certain issues related to determining PRC resident enterprise status, post-determination administration and which competent tax authorities are responsible for determining offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise status. Bulletin 45 specifies that when provided with a copy of a Chinese tax resident determination certificate issued by the competent tax authorities from an offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% withholding income tax when paying Chinese-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise. 27 Table of Contents Currently, there are no detailed rules or precedents governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining de facto management bodies which are applicable to our company or our overseas subsidiary. Although the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by individuals or foreign enterprises like us. Therefore, we do not currently consider our company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if our company or any of our overseas subsidiaries is considered a PRC tax resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, our company or our overseas subsidiary will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to our global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules and Bulletin 45, dividends paid by a PRC tax resident enterprise to an offshore incorporated PRC tax resident enterprise controlled by a PRC enterprise or enterprise group would qualify as tax-exempted income, we cannot assure you that dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control and tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes but not controlled by PRC enterprise or enterprise group like us. Finally, dividends payable by us to our investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to PRC withholding tax. It is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new resident enterprise classification could result in a situation in which a withholding tax of 10% for our non-PRC enterprise investors or a potential withholding tax of 20% for non-PRC individual investors is imposed on dividends we pay to them and with respect to gains derived by such investors from transferring our shares or ADSs. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new resident enterprise classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are required under the Enterprise Income Tax law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders and ADS holders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares or ADSs under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our shares or ADSs would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. As a holding company, we conduct substantially all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries incorporated in China. We may rely on dividends paid by these PRC subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its respective registered capital. In addition, under the related investment agreement, ISST is restricted in paying dividends and it is contemplated that all profits from ISST will be retained within ISST for at least three years. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Our current employment practices may be restricted under the PRC Labor Contract Law and our labor costs may increase as a result. The PRC Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules impose requirements concerning contracts entered into between an employer and its employees and establishes time limits for probationary periods and for how long an employee can be placed in a fixed-term labor contract. Because the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules have not been in effect very long and because there is lack of clarity with respect to their implementation and potential penalties and fines, it is uncertain how it will impact our current employment policies and practices. We cannot assure you that our employment policies and practices do not, or will not, violate the Labor Contract Law or its implementing rules and that we will not be subject to related penalties, fines or legal fees. If we are subject to large penalties or fees related to the Labor Contract Law or its implementing rules, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, according to the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules, if we intend to enforce the non-compete provision with an employee in a labor contract or non-competition agreement, we have to compensate the employee on a monthly basis during the term of the restriction period after the termination or ending of the labor contract, which may cause extra expenses to us. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules require certain terminations to be based upon seniority rather than merit, which significantly affects the cost of reducing workforce for employers. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in the PRC, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our circumstances or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus our results of operations could be adversely affected. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the “PCAOB”, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including our auditors), and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the Commission for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the U.S. Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs There can be no assurance that the agreement and plan of merger entered into with various parties on April 18, 2014 and the going private transaction contemplated thereby will be approved by our shareholders or successfully consummated. Potential uncertainty or disputes involving the going private transaction may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs. On June 6, 2013, we received a preliminary, non-binding proposal from Mr. Liu, our Chief Executive Officer and chairman of our board of directors, and ChinaAMC Capital Management Limited, to acquire all of the outstanding ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) not currently owned by Mr. Liu (and possibly other Rollover Shareholders) in a going private transaction at a price of $0.585 in cash per ordinary share or $5.85 in cash per ADS, subject to certain conditions. In response to the receipt of the preliminary, non-binding proposal, our board of directors formed a committee of independent directors composed of three of our independent directors, Tom Manning, Chung Kao Hsieh, and Al Noor Gulamali Abdulla Ramji to consider the proposal as well as any alternative proposals, and our independent committee retained a financial advisor and legal counsel to assist it in this process. On November 2, 2013, our independent committee received a revised offer from a consortium consisting of Mr. Liu, ChinaAMC Capital Management Limited, Accurate Global Limited, Advance Orient Limited and CSOF Technology Investments Limited, to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares not currently owned by the consortium for $0.545 per ordinary share or $5.45 per ADS, subject to certain conditions. On November 20, 2013, Tao Li, Teng Yue Partners, L.P. and Teng Yue Partners Holdings LLC, or the Teng Yue Partners Entities, a shareholder who owned 6.8% as of the date of this annual report on Form-20F, sent a letter to our independent committee urging it to reject the revised offer. Teng Yue Partners Entities has also engaged in formal discussions with members of the our board of directors and stated that they may also pursue legal actions to oppose the revised November 2, 2013 offer. If we were involved in legal actions with Teng Yue Partners Entities, it would divert the attention of our management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Upon the unanimous recommendation of our independent committee and unanimous approval of our board of directors, on April 18, 2014, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the “Merger Agreement”, which would effectuate the going private proposal, with New iSoftStone Holdings Limited, or Parent, and New iSoftStone Acquisition Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, or the Merger Sub. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub would merge with and into us, and we would survive as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. Immediately after the completion of the merger, Parent will be beneficially owned by Mr. Liu, funds managed by China Everbright Investment Management Limited and certain other management members and shareholders of our company. In connection with and at the effective time of the merger, each ordinary share that is outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) would be canceled and cease to exist, in exchange for the right for the former holder thereof to receive $0.57 (or, in the case of ADSs, each of which represent ten ordinary shares, US$5.70 per ADS), in cash, without interest and net of any applicable withholding taxes, except for (i) ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) owned by New Tekventure Limited, or “Holdco”, Parent, Merger Sub or our company (as treasury shares, if any), or by any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdco, Parent, Merger Sub or our company, (ii) ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) reserved (but not yet allocated) by our company for settlement upon exercise of any company share awards, (iii) ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) owned by the Rollover Shareholders and (iv) ordinary shares owned by holders who have validly exercised and not effectively withdrawn or lost their rights to dissent from the merger pursuant to Section 238 of the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, in each case immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, which ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) would be cancelled and cease to exist without payment of any consideration or distribution therefor, subject to applicable dissenters rights. The per ADS merger consideration to be paid in the merger represents a 17.8% over the closing price of US$4.84 per ADS on June 5, 2013, the last trading day prior to June 6, 2013, the date that we announced that it had received a “going-private” proposal, and a premium of 26.4% to the volume-weighted average closing prices of the ADSs during the 30 trading days prior to June 6, 2013. If the merger closes pursuant to the Merger Agreement, ADSs will no longer be listed on the NYSE and we would become a privately-held company beneficially owned by Mr. Liu, funds managed by China Everbright Investment Management Limited and certain other of our management members and shareholders of the Company. The Merger Agreement is subject to various customary closing conditions, including the approval by an affirmative vote of holders of our company’s ordinary shares representing at least two-thirds of the ordinary shares present and voting in person or by proxy as a single class at an extraordinary general meeting of our shareholders which will be convened to consider the approval of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the merger, and there can be no assurance that the Merger Agreement and the transaction contemplated thereby will be approved by our shareholders or successfully consummated on a timely basis, or at all. 30 Table of Contents In addition, our efforts to close the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may have a number of adverse effects on us, whether or not the transactions close, including: • our announcement or the pendency of the merger may adversely impact our business relationships, operating results and business generally; • our management’s attention may be diverted from our ongoing business operations; • we are subject to various restrictions under the Merger Agreement on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, which may delay or prevent us from undertaking business or other strategic opportunities that may arise pending completion of the merger; • we may incur substantial amounts of costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the merger and the actual terms of the financing that will be obtained for the merger; and • litigation is frequently initiated in connection with “going private” transactions such as that contemplated in the Merger Agreement and we may face heightened risks of litigation, regulatory proceedings or enforcement matters that may be instituted against us and others relating to the merger. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Between December 14, 2010 and April 22, 2014, the trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE ranged from $3.68 to $22.63 per ADS, and the last reported sale price on April 22, 2014 was $5.47 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other IT services companies; • announcements by our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • technological breakthroughs in the services outsourcing industry; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and • general market conditions or other developments affecting us, our industry or the global economy. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ADSs. Volatility in global capital markets, such as the recent global financial crisis and European debt crisis, could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, short sellers and other funds may take a short position or positions in our ADSs for the specific purpose of driving down market price for our ADSs. Short sellers may also publish articles or other allegations in conjunction with such attacks. Even when there is no truth to their claims and we rebut their allegations, such attacks can have a material impact on the market price of our ADSs and divert management resources and attention. The securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may also be highly volatile for specific business reasons including variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, addition or departure of our senior management and other key personnel and potential litigation or administrative investigations. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit or other securities litigation, it would divert the attention of our senior management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 31 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of our ADSs are limited in several significant ways under the terms of the deposit agreement. Except as described in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to holders a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which voting instructions may be given. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders in a timely manner, but holders may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may lack recourse if their ADSs are not voted as requested. In addition, ADS holders will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. Holders of our ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to the holders. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to them. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 32 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcing court judgments obtained against us or any of our directors or management. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our subsidiaries in China. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for holders of our ADSs to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that they believe that their rights have been infringed under the securities laws of the United States or otherwise. Even if holders of our ADSs are successful in bringing an action of this kind in the United States, the respective laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render them unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts, and therefore PRC courts have discretion not to enforce judgments of U.S. courts. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, holders of our ADSs may have less protection of their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our fourth amended and restated memorandum of association and fifth amended and restated articles of association and by the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our fourth amended and restated memorandum of association and fifth amended and restated articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs; • provisions that restrict or limit the ability of our shareholders to replace our directors or increase the size of our board. Our directors are not subject to a term of office (unless a term is set by our board and approved by our shareholders) and their removal requires approval by a supermajority of at least two-thirds of our shareholders at a shareholders meeting or by at least two-thirds of our board of directors. The number of director nominees that our shareholders can propose in any one calendar year is limited to, in the case of a shareholders meeting convened by the company, the lesser of that number of directors that are up for election (which may be none) or 25% of the size of the board, or, in the case of a shareholders meeting properly called by shareholders, 25% of the size of the board. The size of our board is determined by our board of directors; and • provisions that impose advance notice, minimum shareholding periods and ownership thresholds and other requirements on the ability of our shareholders to call meetings or to propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. 33 Table of Contents We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. The significantly different standards applicable to us do not require us to: • have a majority of the board be independent; • have a minimum of three members or a person with accounting or related financial management expertise in our audit committee; • have a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee; • provide an annual certification by our chief executive officer that he or she is not aware of any non-compliance with any corporate governance rules of the NYSE; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year; • seek shareholder approval for (i) the implementation and material revisions of the terms of share incentive plans, (ii) the issuance of more than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares or more than 1% of our outstanding voting power to a related party, (iii) the issuance of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and (iv) an issuance that would result in a change of control; • adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines; or • adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. We do not intend to rely on any of the exemptions provided by the NYSE to foreign private issuers, except that we will not provide an annual certification by our chief executive officer that he or she is not aware of any non-compliance with any corporate governance rules of the NYSE, and we will not seek shareholder approval for (i) the issuance of more than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares or more than 1% of our outstanding voting power to a related party, (ii) the issuance of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and (iii) an issuance that would result in a change of control. As a result, you may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. 34 Table of Contents We believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2014 or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see “Item 10.E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Compliance with rules and requirements applicable to public companies may cause us to incur increased costs, which may negatively affect our results of operations. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Complying with these rules and requirements may be especially difficult and costly for us because we may have difficulty locating sufficient personnel in China with experience and expertise relating to U.S. GAAP and U.S. public company reporting requirements, and such personnel may command high salaries relative to what similarly experienced personnel would command in the United States. If we cannot employ sufficient personnel to ensure compliance with these rules and regulations, we may need to rely more on outside legal, accounting and financial experts, which may be very costly. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 