Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. William J. McGurk, our longstanding President and Chief Executive Officer, retired at the annual meeting of shareholders held on April 26, 2011. Mr. McGurk will remain on our Board of Directors until his term expires in 2013. Mr. McGurk has a continuing consulting role with the Bank as Vice Chairman, Public Relations. In April 2011, William H.W. Crawford, IV replaced Mr. McGurk as President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Joseph F. Jeamel, Jr. retired on June 30, 2010. Mr. Jeamel remains on the Board until 2013 to facilitate transition issues and consults for Rockville Bank as well. His former Chief Operating Officer responsibilities were assumed by Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Marino Santarelli, a newly hired executive officer with over thirty five years of banking experience. In addition, several other executive officers were hired in 2011 to fill key positions. While we will strive to make this transition as smooth as possible, this leadership change may result in disruptions to our business or operations. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to recruit and retain additional highly-skilled personnel. Competition for the very best people from our industries makes the hiring decision process complicated. Our ability to find seasoned individuals with specialized skills sets that match our needs, could prove difficult. We are subject to lending risk and could incur losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. Rockville Bank originates commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within its market area. Commercial and industrial loans, commercial 35 Table of Contents real estate loans, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have a greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. Due to the economic recession and slow economic recovery, the real estate market and local economy are continuing to deteriorate, which has adversely affected the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from borrowers’ businesses, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. The decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our commercial real estate loans. The continued deterioration in the economy and slow economic recovery may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, if poor economic conditions continue to result in decreased demand for loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income than loans. This market uncertainty may lead to a widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure brought to bear on consumers may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion on the commercial loan portfolio in “Loans” within “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because we intend to continue to increase our commercial real estate and commercial business loan originations, our lending risk will increase, and downturns in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect our earnings. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. As our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. Unforeseen market developments outside the general banking industry control may affect customer confidence levels, and may result in increased levels of delinquencies and default rates. The end result may be a negative impact to loss exposure, provision for loan losses, and charge-offs. If Rockville Bank’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Recent declines in real estate values have impacted the collateral values that 36 Table of Contents secure our real estate loans. The impact of these declines on the original appraised values of secured collateral is difficult to estimate, especially in view of a deteriorating market environment. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loss and delinquency experience on different loan categories, and we evaluate existing economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance, which would decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.09% of total loans outstanding and 127.08% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2011. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, it may need to be increased further in the future, due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. In addition, banking regulators and other outside third parties, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on a myriad of factors and assumptions. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future changes in interest rates may reduce our profits which could have a negative impact on the value of our stock. Our ability to consistently make a profit from core operations largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Rockville Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Rockville Bank pays on its interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates paid on deposits, which will result in a decrease in our net interest income. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. The result of any decreases in the fair value of our securities available for sale could then have an adverse affect on our stockholder’s equity or earnings if these devaluations are deemed permanent. Continued or further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. The unrealized losses within our investment securities portfolio are due to an increase in credit spreads and liquidity issues in the marketplace. We have concluded these unrealized losses are temporary in nature since they are not related to the underlying credit quality of the issuers, and we have the intent and ability to hold these investments for a time necessary to recover our cost at stated maturity (at which time, full payment is expected). However, a continued decline in the value of these securities or other factors could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. If dividends paid on our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston become suspended again, or if our investment is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and/or stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the FHLBB to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBB 37 Table of Contents common stock. In February, the FHLBB declared a dividend for the first time in over two years with an annual yield of 30 basis points with the first payment payable on March 2, 2011. Further, recent or future legislation regarding the Federal Home Loan Banks may cause a decrease in the value of the FHLBB stock we hold. It is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBB common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Our stock value may be negatively affected by regulations restricting takeovers. The Change in Bank Control Act and the Bank Holding Company Act, together with Federal Reserve Board regulations promulgated under those laws, require that a person obtain the consent of the Federal Reserve Board before attempting to acquire control of a bank holding company. In addition, the approval of the Connecticut Banking Commissioner is required prior to an offer being made to purchase or acquire 10.0% or more of our common stock for a period of three years from the completion of the conversion and offering. Rockville Bank has opened new branches and expects to open additional new branches which may incur losses during their initial years of operation as they generate new deposit and loan portfolios. Rockville Bank opened new branch offices in Glastonbury in 2005, in South Glastonbury in 2006, in Enfield and East Windsor in 2007, in Colchester in 2008 and in Manchester and South Windsor in 2009 and plans to add a de novo branch in West Hartford in the fall of 2012. Rockville Bank intends to continue to explore opportunities to expand its branch network. Losses are expected in connection with these new branches for some time, as the expenses associated with them are largely fixed and are typically greater than the income earned at the outset as the branches build up their customer bases. Further, Management has made a decision, after careful deliberation of all factors, to lease additional space in the Glastonbury area to relieve overcrowding in various operating locations. While adding to increased efficiencies, these added fixed and variable expenses will have a negative impact on financial results. Strong competition within Rockville Bank’s market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn will adversely affect our business and financial results. The financial industry experienced unprecedented turmoil which began in 2008 and continues to this day as some of the world’s major financial institutions collapsed, were seized or were forced into mergers as the credit markets tightened and the economy headed into a recession, eroding confidence in the world’s financial system. As we have seen in the past year, there have been unintended consequences from the measures taken by the federal government in an effort to stabilize the economy. The United States economy remains weak and 38 Table of Contents unemployment levels are higher than those experienced in the last two decades. Worsening of these conditions may adversely affect our business by materially decreasing our net interest income or materially increasing our loan losses. Further, uncertainty of the financial stability in European markets may have an affect on our operations, with this impact non-quantifiable and difficult to predict when or if it might occur. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy. In particular, the FOMC decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions — including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run — are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014. Flat rates will be a net interest margin challenge in 2012 for all banks. Passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will increase our operational and compliance costs. On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Rockville Bank, as a bank with $10 billion or less in assets, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by our primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier I) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier I capital, such as trust preferred securities. A provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will become effective one year after enactment, eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. We are generally are unable to control or make advanced provision for premiums that we may be required to pay for FDIC insurance. Additional bank failures both on a local and regional level may require further increases to be absorbed by financial institutions with little advanced warning. These increase, when realized, will have a negative affect on earnings. 39 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. The FDIC increased deposit insurance premium expense effective June 30, 2009 in the form of a special assessment. The FDIC has exercised its authority to raise assessment rates beginning in 2009, and may impose another special assessment in the future. If such action is taken by the FDIC it could have an adverse effect on our earnings. At present, the FDIC did not require an additional assessment in 2011, but rather required prepayment in 2009 of deposit insurance premiums for 2010 through 2012. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Connecticut Banking Commissioner, as Rockville Bank’s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as the regulator of Rockville Financial, Inc. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, and their interpretations may result with including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution, and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Inadvertent failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by the various agencies, civil money penalties and resultant reputational damage and this impact cannot be quantified. For example, the short-term and long-term impacts of the new Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel III banks is uncertain. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We are subject to a variety of operational risks which may include the risk of fraud or theft by employees or intrusion by outside parties, Legal and compliance risk, and resultant reputational risk which may adversely affect operations could be the end result. We are exposed to various types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft, legal and compliance, unauthorized transactions by employees or customers, general operational errors, faulty computer or telecommunication systems, or inadvertent disclosure of confidential proprietary information of our customers. The negative public opinion which may result from these diversions cannot be planned or accounted for measurably. However, it can adversely affect our ability to attract new customers or retain current customer bases and expose the Bank to litigation and regulatory sanctions. Should confidential, non-public information of our customers be misused or inadvertently shared, we could suffer significant consequences including but not limited to financial loss and reputational damage. Additionally, the nature of technology in our industry allows for the processing of a high volume of transactions with numerous outside parties. Our dependence upon core operating systems and independent third parties to varying degrees places us at increased risk to effectively manage our 40 Table of Contents processes. Lack of proper controls to detect potential tampering by employees or intrusion from outside our systems, could result in financial losses. Our controls, procedures, and safeguards could be compromised. We may also be subject to disruptions of varying degrees that arise from events that are beyond our reasonable control. Electrical or telecommunication outages, or acts of God could have severe impacts to our ability to operate within acceptable customer service standards. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors upon which we rely on a regular basis may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations and are subject to similar risks as the Bank is as noted above including internal fraud and operational errors or outages. While our formal business continuity plans exist and have been tested, any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability to operate for the benefit of the Bank and our customers. The result in reputational damage, financial liability or future lost business opportunities may be material. We rely to a great degree on sophisticated information systems to conduct our business. A failure of most any degree or breach in security could result in disruption to overall relationship management on both the loan and deposit areas. There can be no reasonable assurance that any such failure will not occur, and if they do, the extent of interruption or damage cannot be adequately quantified. The end result could be lost future customer relationships, increased regulatory sanctions, and possible financial liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 