D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We face uncertainties regarding the growth of B2C e-commerce and market acceptance of our online platform, which could adversely affect our revenues and business prospects. B2C e-commerce, from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry and concept. The level of demand and market acceptance of our online platform are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the growth of personal computer, Internet, broadband, mobile and other telephone users and penetration in China, and the rate of any such growth; 5 Table of Contents • whether B2C e-commerce and online platform, particularly in China, continue to grow and the rate of any such growth; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in customer demographics and public tastes and preferences; and • the popularity and price of product offerings that we and our competitors launch and distribute. A decline in the popularity of online sales in general, or the e-commerce website and call centers that we operate, will adversely affect our revenues and business prospects. Rapid changes in fashion trends, customer preferences and spending patterns may affect our sales and operating results. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The women’s apparel and accessories retail business fluctuates according to changes in customer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. The demand for home products, beauty and healthcare products and other products that we offer also fluctuates according to changes in customer preferences and market trends. Some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our customer base. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for the Chinese market, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business depends on consumer spending patterns. If we cannot compete successfully or a significant number of our customers reduce their spending on our products, we may lose our market share and our revenues could decline. A majority of our revenues derive from selling apparel and accessories primarily to young urban female customers. The e-commerce market is highly competitive in China. We compete with other B2C or C2C e-commerce operators that market lines of merchandise similar to what we offer, department stores and other international or domestic store-based fashion retailers and apparel companies that distribute branded apparel and accessories through non-proprietary retail or department stores. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: • sourcing products efficiently; • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; • anticipating and quickly responding to changing customer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; 6 Table of Contents • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to customers; and • conducting strong and effective marketing activities in several diverse market segments. Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including recession, unemployment, levels of disposable consumer income, demographic changes to our targeted customer segments, consumer debt and consumer confidence. Consumers’ spending on apparel and accessories may not grow as we expected, or at all. Declines in consumer confidence and spending on apparel and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have a limited history operating our sales channels, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We have over eight years of experience in Internet marketing. We began offering women’s apparel and accessories in physical stores in 2006. Accordingly, we have a limited history operating all of our current sales channels upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. We may not be able to achieve similar results or growth in future periods. You should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospects, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets, including the online sales market. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have granted an option of unlimited duration to ICL-Rampage Limited to require us to purchase ICL-Rampage Limited’s 20% minority interest in our subsidiary, Rampage China Limited. We are not able to determine the price that we may be obligated to pay under this option, and the amount may be beyond our ability to pay. Even if we are able to meet our obligation under the option, the payment to ICL-Rampage Limited may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity and the value of your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares. In February 2009, we and Iconix China Limited, or Iconix, jointly established Rampage China Limited, or Rampage Cayman, in the Cayman Islands. We, Iconix, and Rampage Cayman entered into a shareholders’ agreement, pursuant to which Iconix assigned and/or licensed all of its rights, titles and interests in and to certain trademarks in the Greater China area to Rampage Cayman as consideration for 20% of the shares of Rampage Cayman. In February 2010, Iconix transferred all its shares in Rampage Cayman and all of its rights and obligations under the shareholders’ agreement to ICL-Rampage Limited, its wholly-owned subsidiary. Pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement, ICL-Rampage Limited will have the option, beginning upon the completion of the initial public offering, to require us to purchase any or all of its shares in Rampage Cayman. This option will be exercisable at any time, though ICL-Rampage Limited has agreed not to exercise it for a period of one year immediately following the closing of our initial public offering, and it has no termination date. The price that we would be required to pay to ICL-Rampage Limited would be determined by the following formula: price = (our market capitalization) ÷ (our net income for the most recent full financial year) × (the net income of Rampage Cayman for the most recent full financial year) × (percentage of Rampage Cayman equity we are required to purchase) × 0.75 Our market capitalization would be equal to the number of ordinary shares that we have outstanding times the price per ordinary share, with the price per ordinary share based on the average closing price for our ADSs on the 20 business days immediately prior to ICL-Rampage Limited’s delivery of an option exercise notice to us. Our net income and Rampage Cayman’s net income would each be based on our audited annual financial statements. 7 Table of Contents Since we are not able to predict our future share price or market capitalization, or our net income or Rampage Cayman’s net income for future years, we are not able to determine the price we may be obligated to pay pursuant to ICL-Rampage Limited’s option under the shareholders’ agreement. Although we consolidate the results of Rampage Cayman, it is possible for Rampage Cayman to have a net income equal to or greater than our consolidated net income in any year in the future, so the price could be a significant percentage of our market capitalization or even greater. If we are unable to meet our obligation under the option, ICL-Rampage Limited may have the right to force Rampage China into liquidation, in which case you will lose a portion or all of the value of your investment. Even if we are able to meet our obligation under the option, the payment to ICL-Rampage Limited may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity and the value of your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares. Furthermore, ICL-Rampage Limited will have the right to reacquire the trademarks it assigned to Rampage Cayman, for only nominal consideration, if we fail to make a loan totaling US$10 million to Rampage Cayman or if Rampage Cayman fails to achieve annual gross revenues of RMB400.0 million (US$60.6 million) by the fifth anniversary of the date of the shareholders’ agreement. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we lose the right to Rampage trademarks. We may not be able to manage the rapid growth of our physical store network effectively and the store opening costs may adversely affect our profitability in future periods. As of December 31, 2010, we had 451 stores in 172 cities in China. We plan to explore various strategic options regarding our store-based retail operations. We may not be able to successfully and effectively manage the growth of our physical store network. Therefore, there is no assurance that the intended growth of our store network can be achieved or will be profitable. If we do not successfully manage the expansion of our store network, our operating costs may increase and our sales and financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, an economic downturn, which may adversely affect the profitability of our stores, could result in longer lead-time for new stores to reach their optimal operating levels. In addition, we incur costs and expenses when a new store is opened. For our directly operated stores, we will incur rent, employee expenses, the costs of leasehold improvements and store fixtures. For our franchised stores, we will incur expenses relating to our provision of certain leasehold improvements, store fixtures and lightings to our franchisees. We record expenses relating to our provision of certain leasehold improvements for franchised stores when these expenses are incurred. The effect of store openings could potentially adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the first 12 to 18 months after store openings. We have limited experience with franchising arrangements, and our efforts to expand across China through franchising arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands and our results of operation. As of December 31, 2010, we had entered into franchise agreements with franchisees to operate 327 stores across China. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and accessories purchased from us under our Euromoda and Rampage brands. Prior to 2007, we had no experience operating through these types of franchising arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. We plan to continue to increase these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand into less developed markets in China. The effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new local markets and our ability to successfully identify and work with appropriate third parties to act as franchisees. In addition, these franchisees may not be able to meet their projections regarding store openings, sales and other aspects of franchising arrangements. Moreover, to the extent that these franchisees do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards, the value of our brands could be impaired. Failure to protect the value of our brands or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 8 Table of Contents In addition, because we have limited contact with our end customers in the local markets covered by franchised stores, we rely substantially on our franchisees to gauge market demand. As such, we have little or no ability to independently predict sales or market demand, and it remains difficult for us, or our investors, to assess our prospective financial and operational performance in these local markets. Any failure to accurately predict demand by our franchisees in the local markets in which we offer products would adversely affect our results of operations and business. We rely significantly on the proper operation and maintenance of our e-commerce website M18.com, and any capacity constraint or operation interruption for any extended period may have an adverse impact on our B2C e-commerce business. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic and orders on the M18.com site. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the M18.com site, transaction- processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer service levels. Our revenues depend on the number of visitors who shop on the M18.com site and the volume of orders we fulfill. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network and computer infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain Internet customers. From time to time, our Internet customers in certain locations could not gain access to our M18.com site for a period of time lasting from several minutes to several hours, due to server interruptions, power shutdowns, Internet connection problems or other reasons. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our M18.com site, could reduce the volume of the products we sell and the attractiveness of our product offerings. In addition, any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on the M18.com site or the number of orders placed by customers will require us to expand and upgrade further our technology, transaction- processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of the M18.com site or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer hacking and similar events. We maintain limited insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems. As a result, any operation interruptions for any expended period not covered by our insurance may have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. E-commerce security risks, such as breaches of security for confidential transactional information, may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A significant barrier to e-commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on self-developed encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information, such as customer names, addresses and credit card numbers. Currently, a portion of our Internet selling revenues is generated from sales through third-party online payment platforms. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks, in some cases including our e-commerce website as well, is essential to maintain consumer confidence. We do not have control over the security measures of third-party online payment service providers. While we have not experienced any breach of our security measures to date, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used by us or third-party service providers to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our or such third-party service providers’ security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to circumvent these security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and other online services and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and our e-commerce website in particular, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. To the extent that activities of us or third-party service providers involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. There can be no assurance that our or third-party service providers’ security measures will prevent security breaches or that failure to prevent such security breaches will not have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We rely on proper operation and maintenance of our management information system. Any malfunction for any extended periods may have an adverse impact on our operational efficiency. Our management information system, together with our experience and knowledge in this field, is a critical aspect of our capabilities in operating our business. Our e-commerce, call center and physical store operations rely on the sustained proper operation of our management information system. Our management information system provides a database of information and information gathering and management capabilities regarding customer information, sales records, inventory levels and various other facets of the business to assist business management and help ensure effective communication among various branches and stores of the business. We cannot assure you that our management information system will operate properly or without interruption. Any malfunction to any part or all of our management information system for a prolonged period may cause delays in operations or impairment of our overall business efficiency. We also cannot ensure that the level of security currently maintained will be sufficient to protect the system from third-party intrusions, viruses, lost or stolen data or similar situations. Additionally, as one of our growth and development strategies in the next few years, we plan to upgrade and improve our management information system. We cannot assure you that there will be no interruptions to our management information system during the upgrades or that the new management information system will be able to integrate fully with the existing information system. If our existing or future management information system does not function properly, it could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times, affecting data transmission, which in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on positive public recognition of our brands. Failure to effectively promote or develop our brands could materially and adversely affect our sales and profits. A significant portion of our total net revenues is derived from sales of our Euromoda- and Rampage- branded apparel and accessories products in China. Brand image is an important factor which affects a customer’s purchasing decision with respect to our products. Our success therefore depends on, among other things, market recognition and acceptance of our private brands and the culture, lifestyle and images associated with the brands, some of which may not be within our control. We only began designing, promoting and selling Rampage-branded products in China in 2009 and have limited experience in managing the Rampage brand. To effectively promote these brands, we would have to be able to build and maintain the brand image by focusing on a variety of promotional and marketing activities to promote brand awareness, as well as to increase their presence in the markets in which we compete. There is no assurance that we will be able to effectively promote or develop these brands and if we fail to do so, the goodwill of such brands may be undermined and our business as well as its financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity or disputes regarding our brands, products, company or management could materially and adversely affect public perception of our brands. Any impact on our ability to continue to sell products of one or more of our brands or any significant damage to one or more of our brands’ images could materially and adversely affect our sales and profits. 10 Table of Contents Our sales may be affected by seasonality and weather conditions. The performance of our businesses is subject to seasonal fluctuations. For example, our revenues are relatively low during the Chinese New Year period in the first quarter of each year when customers tend to do less online shopping. Our revenues in the third quarter of each year also tend to be lower than other months because we sell apparel for the summer season then, which normally has lower unit prices compared to our apparel for the autumn and winter seasons. Extreme changes in weather patterns could also affect customers’ purchasing behavior, which may lead to fluctuations in our sales revenues. For example, the unusually prolonged cold weather in the first quarter of 2010 resulted in lower than expected demand for spring apparel. As a result, we believe that comparisons of our operating results and net income over any interim periods may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. If we cannot market and sell third-party branded products through our online platform successfully, our brand reputation, revenue growth and results of operations will be adversely and materially impaired. We offer third-party branded products through our online platform. We plan to introduce more new brands into our online platform and are currently in discussions with several third-party brand owners, particularly owners of apparel and accessories brands to distribute their branded products through our online platform. We launched 317 third-party brands in 2010. We cannot assure you that this growth strategy will succeed. We try to cooperate with those brands that are consistent with our existing brand portfolio strategy and cater to sub-segments of customers of different tastes and age. However we may misjudge the branding image and the brands we work with may turn out to be cannibalizing our existing customer base. Third-party brands reserve the rights to market and sell their products through other channels such as stores, which could cause channel conflicts and reduce our sales volume. Where we have negotiated exclusive distribution rights, we may lose such rights if we fail to meet the sales target provided in the contracts. In addition, certain aspects of these third-party products are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to deliver quality products to us on time and to maintain their brand reputation. To the extent that these third parties do not operate their business successfully or encounter a material product liability claim or other legal proceedings, the value of our brands and platform could be impaired, which could in turn, have an adverse effect on our reputation and our results of operations. We offer Euromoda- and Rampage-branded apparel and accessories through our online platform and stores, and may be subject to price conflicts, which could adversely affect our reputation and business. We offer our Euromoda- and Rampage- branded apparel and accessories through both of our online platform and physical stores. To avoid competition and conflicts between our online platform and stores, we generally adopt a unified price to end customers across online platform and stores for the same product during most of its life cycle. In particular, we require our franchisees to comply with our price control policy through our franchising agreements. However, there is no assurance that our policy to avoid price conflicts will be successful. If we misprice any product on our online platform or in our stores, or if any franchisee violates our policy by selling any products at a discount without our consent, our customers could be confused by different prices of the same product, and our reputation and business could be adversely affected. We may not successfully integrate newly acquired or licensed brands or businesses into our business model, and our sales and profits may suffer as a result. We may acquire or obtain licenses to operate additional brands to expand our brand portfolio in the future. Our ability to achieve such expansion depends on our ability to identify the appropriate additional brands and to initiate, negotiate and complete the acquisition of or obtain the license for such brands. In addition, we may experience difficulties in integrating the newly acquired or licensed brands or businesses into our existing business model and in retaining the key personnel to manage such acquired or licensed brands or businesses. The cost and duration of integration could also exceed our original estimation. Any impact on our ability to continue to sell products of one or more of our brands, or any significant damage to one or more of our brands’ images, could materially and adversely affect our sales and profits. 11 Table of Contents We procure products from our suppliers, and our products are subject to risks associated with product sourcing, which may impair our operating margins and profitability. Potential product liability claims may adversely impact our reputation, results of operations, financial performance and business as well. We do not possess internal manufacturing capability, and we outsource the production of nearly all of our products, including the printing of our catalogs, to third-party suppliers including OEM suppliers and third-party branded product suppliers. Such arrangements carry with them risks associated with the possibility that the relevant suppliers may: (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; (iii) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant manufacturing or contractual arrangements, including obligations to meet our production deadlines, quality standards and product specifications; (iv) have financial difficulties; (v) encounter raw material or labor shortages; (vi) encounter increases in raw material or labor costs which may impact our merchandise procurement cost; and (vii) engage in activities or employ practices that may harm our reputation. The occurrence of any of these problems, alone or together, could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance and business. For example, some of our OEM suppliers were not able to deliver products to us on schedule in the first quarter of 2010 partly due to labor shortages experienced by manufacturers in coastal areas of East China and South China. As reported by media in China and worldwide, the labor shortage was partly attributable to peasant workers’ expectation of higher salaries and benefits than the then market rates and their seeking working opportunities closer to home. This has triggered subsequent salary increases in some regions in China and some manufacturers’ relocation to inland China. As a result, we experienced a substantial merchandise shortage for the first quarter of 2010. In addition, if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace a significant number of existing suppliers, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Furthermore, suppliers may deliver products to us by third-party carriers over long distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to transportation shortages, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors could adversely impact our financial performance. Manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. Although our dedicated quality assurance and control team is responsible for inspecting product quality at every stage of product manufacturing for our private brand products, we may not have effective or sufficient control over the quality of our products under the current outsourcing manufacturing arrangements. We maintain product liability insurance for the products sold by us with a cap of RMB10.0 million ($1.5 million), but there is no assurance that such insurance is sufficient to cover all of our losses caused by a material product liability claim. A successful product liability claim brought against us or a requirement to participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, we may incur significant resources and time to defend ourselves if legal proceedings are brought against us. If any such claims are made, our reputation, results of operations, financial performance and business may be materially and adversely affected. The financial soundness of our franchisees and vendors could affect our earnings and cash flow. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of China and other parts of the world, our franchisees, product or service suppliers and other vendors may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, franchisees may order fewer products from us and vendors may increase their prices, reduce their output or change terms of sales. Additionally, if the operating and financial performance of our product or service suppliers and/or vendors deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. Any reduction in purchases from our franchisees or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to renew the leases of our directly operated stores and office, warehouse and call center space on reasonable terms or at all and our sales and financial results may be adversely affected as a result. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 124 directly operated stores. We lease our store space primarily from mall operators or other shopping place owners generally for an initial term of no more than five years. We also leased an aggregate of approximately over 10,000 square meters of office, warehouse and call center space in China as of March 2011. There is no assurance that each of the leases will be renewed upon expiry or on reasonable terms. If we are unable to renew the leases of our directly operated stores or unable to renew them on reasonable terms, we would need to relocate the relevant stores, which could lead our stores to be less appealing to our customers. Renewal of leases at unfavorable terms will result in increased rental expenditure for us. In such cases, our sales and financial results may be adversely affected. We rely on services from third parties to carry out our business, and if there is any interruption or deterioration in the quality of these services, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The delivery of the products from our warehouses to our individual customers and stores locally and throughout China is conducted by third-party express courier companies and EMS, the national express mail service operated by the China Postal Office. Such shipping services could be suspended and therefore interrupt the delivery of our products if unforeseen events occur which are beyond our control, such as poor handling of and damage to our products, transportation bottlenecks, natural disasters or labor strikes. Relying on express courier companies and EMS increases the risk that we may fail to deliver finished products to individual customers or retail stores on time. If our products are not delivered on time or are delivered in a damaged state, our market reputation could be adversely affected. The occurrence of any of these problems alone, or together, could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance and business. We also rely on various third parties to operate our business, such as professional photographers and advertising service providers. Any interruption in our ability to obtain the services of these or other third parties or deterioration in their performance could impair the timeliness and quality of our operations. Furthermore, if our arrangements with any of these third parties are terminated or modified against our interest, we may not be able to find alternative solutions for our business on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us or at all. If any of the above factors happens, our customers may cease shopping on one or more of our platforms as a result, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on effective marketing efforts to maintain and increase our revenues. Inefficient marketing approaches may adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operation. We rely on effective marketing efforts tailored to our targeted customers to maintain and increase our revenues. Our marketing activities may not be well received by our customers or potential customers or promote levels of customer purchases as we predicted. We may also incur higher levels of marketing expenses to generate our anticipated levels of customer purchases, which would adversely affect results of operations. Marketing approaches and tools in the consumer product market in China are evolving. This requires us to enhance our marketing approaches to keep pace with the industry development and customer preferences. Our failure to refine our existing marketing approaches or to introduce new effective marketing approaches could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. We plan to expand our logistics center and distribution network. If we are not able to manage such expansion successfully, our growth potential, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. Our logistics centers located in Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu and Guangzhou have a total of approximately 97,500 square meters and are capable of handling over 57,000 orders per day as of April 2011. COD via third-party express courier companies covers 170 cities in China. We intend to expand our logistics center and distribution network to accommodate more customer orders, including orders for third-party branded apparel and accessories offered via our online platform. We have plans to build a new logistics center in Jiangsu Province with an area of approximately 121,130 square meters that would be capable of handling more than 100,000 orders each day, which will be completed by the end of 2011. We also plan to expand the leased logistics center in Guangzhou to a total of approximately 12,000 square meters with the capability of processing, packaging and shipping more than 10,000 orders each day. In addition, we aim to retain more express courier companies across China. The expansion of our logistics center and distribution network will put pressure on our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. We may face risks and uncertainties relating to the construction of the new logistics center, such as delays and cost overruns, delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanded logistics operations and control increasing costs, our growth potential, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents If our lease of a warehouse located on land owned by collective farms or lease of a warehouse without required certificates is found not in compliance with applicable PRC laws, we may incur cost and expenses and operations of these warehouses could be disrupted as a result. Since April 2010, we have leased a warehouse with approximately 3,000 square meters located in Guangzhou from an individual who built the warehouse on a piece of land he leased from collective farms. As this individual has not been able to provide us with the relevant building ownership certificate for this warehouse or an authorization letter from the competent authority of the collective farms for our lease, he may not be a qualified land lessee under applicable PRC laws, and our lease of the warehouse could have been incompliant with applicable PRC laws. Further, since July 2010, we have leased a warehouse with approximately 6,700 square meters located in Chengdu, for which the building completion inspection and acceptance certificate and the building ownership certificate have not been obtained. As a result, our lease of this warehouse could have been incompliant with applicable PRC laws. We are informed that the owner of this warehouse is in the process of obtaining such certificates. If the above two leases are decided by competent PRC authorities to be not in compliance with applicable PRC laws, we may have to look for replacement warehouses for our operations. Approximately 16% of our current capacity for processing orders is attributed to these two warehouses. Unplanned relocation may cause us to incur additional moving costs and expenses and part of our logistics operation may be interrupted, and we cannot assure you that we can find replacement warehouses on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our inventory may become obsolete, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to seasonal and other changes in customer demand. Since merchandise usually must be ordered in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases, market demand for our products may fall below management expectations. In addition, the cyclical nature of the apparel and accessories business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the past, we have not always predicted our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our products with accuracy. If sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may lead to excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. We may also accumulate inventories, which may eventually lead to inventory write-downs that could adversely affect our financial results. 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations, financial performance and business may be adversely affected by intellectual property rights infringement claims against us. In 2008, we were determined in a legal proceeding to have infringed a third party’s copyright due to certain bed clothes products we purchased from a supplier and offered to customers. We were required to compensate such third party RMB20,000 ($3,000). Currently we are not aware of any intellectual property rights infringement claims or potential disputes against us, except that one third party initiated two lawsuits against us for intellectual property infringement, claiming for indemnifications of RMB100,000 ($15,152) for each case. In addition, we could face claims by others that we are improperly using intellectual property owned by them or otherwise infringing upon their rights in intellectual property. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur costs in either defending or settling any intellectual property disputes alleging infringement. Intellectual property litigation against us could potentially force us to, among other things, cease selling the challenged products, develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses from the owners of the infringed intellectual property. In such case, we may not be successful in developing such alternatives or in obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all and our results of operations, financial performance and business could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our registered trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and failure to protect our intellectual property rights may affect our ability to compete. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on a combination of data security technology, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Such protection may be compromised by, among other things, (i) the expiration of the protection period of our registered intellectual property, (ii) infringement by others of our intellectual property rights including, for example, counterfeiting of our brands, designs or products, or unauthorized usage of our customer database, (iii) breach of contractual arrangements by our suppliers or franchisees; or (iv) delay or refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve pending intellectual property registration applications. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we do not have insurance that covers litigation costs. As a result, we would have to pay for the cost of litigation initially and may only be able to recover those costs if we prevail. Even if we prevail, it may be difficult to recover the costs from a third party. We cannot assure you that we would be able to recover all such costs. Consequently, the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our management and other key personnel. If we lose their services, we could incur significant costs in finding suitable replacements and our business may be severely disrupted. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Mr. Alfred Beichun Gu, our chief executive officer, and Mr. Paul Bang Zhang, our senior vice president and chief financial officer. If one or more of our senior management or key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our management or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into employment agreements and confidentiality and non-competition agreements with us. However, if any dispute arises between our officers and us, the non-competition provisions contained in their confidentiality and non-competition agreements may not be enforceable, especially in China, where most of these executive officers and key employees reside, on the ground that we have not provided adequate compensation to these executive officers for their non-competition obligations, which is required under the relevant PRC regulations. 15 Table of Contents We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We will need to hire and retain additional qualified employees to support our existing operations and planned expansion. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel in design, product management, marketing, and other functions. The effective operation of our information technology system, call centers, logistics and other back office functions also depends in part on our professional employees. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the qualified key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. In addition, as our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the increasing demands of our business. We have a limited insurance coverage which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. We maintain property insurance policies covering our equipment, facilities, inventories and other properties. These insurance policies cover losses due to fire, explosions, floods and a wide range of other natural disasters or accidents. We also maintain product liability insurance, business interruption insurance, fidelity insurance, cargo transit insurance and other insurance policies related to our operations. We believe we have obtained a prudent amount of insurance for the insurable risks relating to our business. However, there is no assurance that the insurance policies we maintain are sufficient to cover our business operations. If we were to incur substantial liabilities that were not covered by our insurance, we could incur costs and losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to establish or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may, therefore, be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, we will be required to prepare a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, depending on our market capitalization, our independent registered public accounting firm may be required to attest to and report on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Prior to the initial public offering, we have been a private company with limited numbers of accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for 2008, 2009 and 2010, we noted certain significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. We have not noted any material weakness, as defined in the standards established by the PCAOB, in our internal controls over financial reporting. 16 Table of Contents We will continue to implement measures to remedy any significant deficiencies to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our current growth and potential future growth. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth pursuant to our strategies, we anticipate that we may need to implement and maintain a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and manage our relationships with our customers and third-party product and service providers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies and manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, such undertakings may not be successful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory and market risks, as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. We may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or alliance partners. Even if we identify suitable candidates or partners, we may be unable to complete an acquisition or alliance on terms commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or partners, or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors. These factors include: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties in retaining personnel of the acquired companies; • unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and • tax and accounting issues. If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, our earnings, revenues growth and business could be negatively affected. Furthermore, the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products in which the acquired companies specialize, and the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to secure additional funding in the future or to obtain such funding on favorable terms. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and the anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary principally depending on the timing of new product launches, investments and/or acquisitions, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of e-commerce merchants or apparel and accessories merchants; • conditions of the United States and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulations of foreign investment in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially if there is a recession or other events causing volatilities in the capital markets worldwide. We have been a party in certain legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We and several of our directors and officers were named defendants in two purported class actions currently pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York—Arfa v. Mecox Lane Limited, et al., No. 10-CV-9053 and Brady v. Mecox Lane Limited, et al., No. 11-CIV-0034. It was alleged in the class actions that the defendants included or allowed to be included materially false and misleading statements in the registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with the initial public offering in violation of Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, and against the defendant directors and officers under Section 15 of the Securities Act. On March 31, 2011, the actions were consolidated by order of Judge Robert Sweet. The Court appointed a lead plaintiff and co-lead counsel. Pursuant to a scheduling order, the lead plaintiff may file an amended, consolidated complaint within sixty days of that order. Our response will be due sixty days after the filing of that amended complaint. We intend to continue defending against these class actions. 18 Table of Contents Unfavorable resolutions of these legal proceedings or any future legal proceedings could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 8, “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. Due to the global financial crisis, the growth of the Chinese economy also slowed down in the second half of 2008 and early 2009. There is also uncertainty with respect to the Chinese economy for 2011 and beyond. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy, in particular the apparel and accessories industry, could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our customers may decrease spending on our products, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing customers. Although the Chinese economy is no longer a planned economy, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economic growth through direct allocation of resources, monetary and tax policies, and a host of other government policies such as those that encourage or restrict investment in certain industries by foreign investors, control the exchange between RMB and foreign currencies, and regulate the growth of the general or specific market. These government involvements have been instrumental in China’s significant growth in the past 30 years. If the PRC government’s current or future policies fail to help the Chinese economy achieve further growth or otherwise negatively affect our business, our growth rate or strategy, our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result. If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for operating our online platform and physical stores do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. We are a Cayman Islands company and, as such, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under Chinese laws, and our PRC subsidiaries, Mai Wang Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Mai Wang Trading, and Rampage Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Rampage Trading, are foreign-invested enterprises. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from holding certain licenses required to operate e-commerce business, including Internet content provision. Chinese regulations also require foreign-invested retail enterprises to go through an additional approval process, not required of domestic retail enterprises, each time they open a new retail store. Each time a foreign-invested retail enterprise wishes to open a new store, it must submit the following documents, among others, to the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its authorized local counterpart: (i) an application letter for opening the new store, (ii) a feasibility study report for opening the new store, (iii) the applicant’s most recent fiscal year’s audit report, and (iv) documents issued by the local government on the proposed new store’s compliance with requirements for city development and development of urban commerce. The new store can only be opened after approval is received from the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its authorized local counterpart. In light of these restrictions, we rely on our VIEs, which are Chinese domestic companies not subject to these restrictions, to hold licenses for operating these businesses. We rely on Shanghai Mecox Lane Information Technology Co., Ltd., or MecoxLane Information, to hold and maintain the licenses necessary to operate our e-commerce business in China, and rely on Shanghai Mecox Lane Shopping Co., Ltd., or MecoxLane Shopping, to operate our physical stores. Therefore, our VIE, MecoxLane Shopping, is able to open new stores without going through the additional approval process required each time for a foreign-invested retail enterprise to open a new store in China. Besides, we conduct the business of wholesale and retail of apparel and accessories in the brand name of Rampage in China through Shanghai Rampage Shopping Co., Ltd., or Rampage Shopping. We do not have any equity interest in MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping or Rampage Shopping but receive their economic benefits through various contractual arrangements and certain corporate governance and shareholder rights arrangements. In addition, we have entered into agreements with MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping, Rampage Shopping and each of their shareholders which provide us with a substantial ability to control MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping. For a description of these contractual arrangements with MecoxLane Information, see Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions.” 19 Table of Contents The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business, or the Circular, issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, in July 2006, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses, which require foreign investors to set up foreign-invested enterprises and obtain a business operating license for Internet content provision to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under the Circular, a domestic company that holds an Internet content provision license is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local Internet content provision license holder. The Circular further requires each Internet content provision license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value- added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the regulator, it is unclear what impact the Circular will have on us or the other Chinese Internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours. Our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, has advised us that (i) the ownership structure and the business and operation model of Mai Wang Trading, MecoxLane Information and MecoxLane Shopping are not in violation of any existing PRC laws and regulations, (ii) the ownership structure and the business and operation model of Rampage Trading and Rampage Shopping are not in violation of any existing PRC laws and regulations, and (iii) each contract under Mai Wang Trading’s contractual arrangements with MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and each of their shareholders and under Rampage Trading’s contractual arrangements with Rampage Shopping and its shareholders is valid and binding and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including the Circular. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC counsel. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the Circular, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking Mai Wang Trading, MecoxLane Shopping, Rampage Trading or Rampage Shopping’s business license or MecoxLane Information’s business or operating licenses, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our e-commerce or retail business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping, Rampage Shopping and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping as direct ownership of these companies. We conduct our B2C e-commerce and store-based retailing businesses in China through MecoxLane Information and MecoxLane Shopping, respectively. Besides, we conduct the business of wholesale and retail of apparel and accessories in the brand name of Rampage in China through Rampage Shopping. Our contractual arrangements with MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping, Rampage Shopping and their respective shareholders provide us with effective control over these companies. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions.” As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered to be the primary beneficiary of MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping and accordingly, we consolidate the results of operations, assets and liabilities of MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping in our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Although we have been advised by Jun He Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, that each contract under these contractual arrangements is valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws and regulations, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping as direct ownership of these companies. If any VIE or its shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See Item 3, “Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” The shareholders of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Each of MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping is jointly owned by Mr. Paul Bang Zhang, our senior vice president and chief financial officer, Mr. Guisheng Liu, our employee, and Mr. Yi Xu, our employee. MecoxLane Information is jointly owned by Mr. Paul Bang Zhang, Mr. Yi Xu and Mr. Richard Sijie Pu, our head of e-commerce. Conflicts of interests between these individuals’ role as shareholders of our VIEs and their duties to our company may arise. In addition, Mr. Xu is also a director and executive officer of MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping, and Mr. Pu is also a director and executive officer of MecoxLane Information. The laws of China provide that a director or member of management owes a fiduciary duty to the company he directs or manages. Mr. Xu and Mr. Pu must therefore act in good faith and in the best interests of the relevant VIEs and must not use their respective positions for personal gain. These laws do not require them to consider our best interests when making decisions as a director or member of management of the relevant VIEs. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause our VIEs to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control our VIEs and receive economic benefits from them. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company and a conflict could result in these individuals as officers of our company violating fiduciary duties to us. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of our VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business, and there would be substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Contractual arrangements we have entered into may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or our affiliated entities owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. As required by applicable PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries in China on the one hand, and MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping and Rampage Shopping on the other, do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping or Rampage Shopping’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by MecoxLane Information, MecoxLane Shopping or Rampage Shopping, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our affiliated entities for underpaid taxes. Our net income may be adversely affected if our affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 21 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain government tax incentives. Expiration, reduction or discontinuation of, or changes to, these incentives will increase our tax burden and reduce our net income. Two of our PRC subsidiaries, Shanghai MecoxLane International Mailorder Co., Ltd., or MecoxLane Mailorder, and Mai Wang Trading, enjoy a preferential corporate income tax rate of 22% in 2010 and 24% in 2011, and Mai Wang Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Mai Wang Information, as a software enterprise, enjoys a corporate income tax exemption in 2010 and will continue to be entitled to a 50% reduction of its applicable income tax rate from 2011 to 2013. The reduced applicable income tax rate of Mai Wang Information will be 12.5% from 2011 to 2013. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation.” Various local governments in China have provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments at any time. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found to violate national laws or regulations and we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. Any expiration, reduction or discontinuation of, or changes to, these tax incentives will increase our tax burden and reduce our net income and thus have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We principally rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us, or the tax implications of making payments to us, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Most of our assets are held by, and substantially all of our earnings and cash flows are attributable to, our PRC subsidiaries. If earnings from our PRC subsidiaries were to decline, our earnings and cash flow would be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, we had, on a consolidated basis, accumulated losses of $30 million representing accumulated losses in a number of our PRC subsidiaries, primarily in MecoxLane Mailorder. Therefore, our relevant PRC subsidiaries are not able to distribute dividends to us until their accumulated losses have been made up. Our cash flows are principally derived from dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to distribute dividends largely depends on earnings from our PRC subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends out of those earnings. Our PRC subsidiaries do not have a history of paying dividends. We cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries will generate sufficient earnings and cash flows in the near future to make up the historical accumulated losses and pay dividends or otherwise distribute sufficient funds to enable us to meet our obligations, pay interest and expenses or declare dividends. In addition, under the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law and the Implementing Rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, dividends generated from the business of our PRC subsidiaries after January 1, 2008 and payable to us may be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10% if the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we are a non-resident enterprise, unless there is a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. 22 Table of Contents We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC corporate income tax purposes, which could result in our global income becoming subject to 25% PRC corporate income tax. The PRC Corporate Income Tax Law provides that enterprises established outside China whose “effective management” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% corporate income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation regulations, “effective management” is defined as substantial and overall management and control over such aspects as the production and business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the State Administration of Taxation released a circular that sets out the standards and procedures for recognizing the location of the “effective management” of an enterprise registered outside of the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors, or a Chinese Funded Enterprise. Under the circular, a Chinese Funded Enterprise is considered a resident enterprise if all of the following applies: (i) a Chinese Funded Enterprise’s major management department and personnel who are responsible for carrying out daily operations are located in the PRC; (ii) the department or the personnel who have the right to decide or approve the Chinese Funded Enterprise’s financial and human resource matters are located in the PRC; (iii) the major assets, account book, company seal and meeting minutes of the Chinese Funded Enterprise are located or stored in the PRC; and (iv) the directors or management personnel holding no less than 50% voting rights of the Chinese Funded Enterprise habitually reside in the PRC. The circular explicitly provides that the above standards apply to the enterprises which are registered outside the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors, and therefore such standards may be cited for reference only and may not be directly adopted when considering whether our “effective management” is in the PRC or not. Accordingly, it is still uncertain whether we may be considered a resident enterprise under the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, we will be subject to a 25% PRC income tax on our global income and such 25% PRC corporate income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. If we are classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC corporate income tax purposes, you may be subject to PRC withholding tax on dividends from us or to PRC income tax on gain realized on the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Under the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law and related implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business if the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC unless a treaty otherwise provides. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is significantly lower than in the United States and other developed countries. Furthermore, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of Internet access still remains relatively high. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of our business. In addition, there is no assurance that there will not be any increase in Internet access or telecommunication fees in China. If that happens, the number of our online customers may decrease and the growth of our customer base may be materially impeded. 23 Table of Contents The continued growth of China’s Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. We rely on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced plans to develop aggressively the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of the initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds of the initial public offering in the manner described in “Use of Proceeds” under the Registration Statement on Form F-1, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. Capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We may not be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of the initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Pursuant to a circular issued by the Ministry of Commerce and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, a number of foreign invested enterprises, including MecoxLane Mailorder, have been prohibited from expanding their construction scale. Such prohibition may make us unable to finance MecoxLane Mailorder by means of increasing capital contributions or through non-RMB loans. 24 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our cash inflows and outflows are denominated in Renminbi. We may convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations such as payment of dividends declared in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to make payments of current accounts, like dividends to their offshore holding companies, in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC authorities will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. We may also have different views with the PRC authorities with respect to certain foreign exchange transactions. Our Cayman Islands holding company historically provided certain funds to our PRC subsidiaries, which we have treated as current-account transactions that did not require prior approval from the SAFE. However, if the PRC authorities do not take the same view as to these transactions, we may be subject to penalties such as fines or restrictions on remitting such funds outside China. These and other uncertainties with respect to currency exchange controls may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. We may be subject to penalties, including restriction on our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, if our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners fail to comply with relevant PRC foreign exchange rules. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose vehicle.” PRC residents that are shareholders and/or beneficial owners of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. In addition, any PRC resident that is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose vehicle is required to amend its SAFE registration with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China or other material changes in share capital. In May 2007, SAFE issued relevant guidance to its local branches with respect to the operational process for SAFE registration, which standardized more specific and stringent supervision on the registration relating to the SAFE notice. 25 Table of Contents We have requested our current shareholders and/or beneficial owners to disclose whether they or their shareholders or beneficial owners fall within the ambit of the SAFE notice and urge those who are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. However, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make, obtain or update any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by the SAFE notice or other related rules. In case of any non-compliance on any of our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners, our PRC subsidiaries and such shareholders and beneficial owners may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions, including restriction on our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our offshore holding companies, which will adversely affect our business. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted in an over 20% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. For almost two years after reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high. As a consequence, the Renminbi fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. In June 2010, the PRC government announced that it would increase RMB exchange rate flexibility. However, it remains unclear how this flexibility might be implemented. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in greater fluctuation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in RMB. We principally rely on dividends and other distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. Any fluctuations of the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market in October 2010. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, has advised us that, based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, regulations and rules and the procedures announced on September 21, 2006, we were not required to submit an application to the CSRC for the approval of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, partly based on the fact that no public record indicating that any of the issuers having similar corporate structures and already listed on an off-shore stock exchange has been required by the CSRC to procure the approval of the CSRC prior to its listing, and given the timing of the formation of our company and our subsidiaries and affiliated entities, as well as the sequence of the formation of our offshore holding companies and their subsidiaries in the PRC. 26 Table of Contents If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We face risks of health epidemics and other disasters, which could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H1N1, or swine influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. In 2009 and early 2010, there were outbreaks of swine influenza in certain regions of the world, including China. In 2006 and 2007, there were reports on the occurrences of avian influenza in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of swine influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or stores. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from man-made or natural disasters, including wars, acts of terrorism, snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. In January and February of 2008, large portions of Southern and Central China were hit with a series of snowstorms, which caused extensive damage and transportation disruption. If any similar man-made or natural disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. China adopted a new labor law effective on January 1, 2008, that establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers to dismiss employees. For example, the new labor law requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in the PRC, the new labor law could adversely affect our ability to effect such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our circumstances or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the new labor law requires employers pay compensation to their employees who agree to bear non-competition obligations on a monthly basis after the employees’ employments expire or terminate, which will increase employers’ operating expenses. Risks Related to Our Shares and ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating results. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from October 26, 2010, the first day on which our ADSs were traded on the Nasdaq, until April 26, 2011, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$5.17 to US$18.50 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 26, 2011 was US$5.62 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies operate in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar, intellectual property litigation, release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares or ADSs, and economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ADSs. Volatility in global capital markets, as was experienced during the global financial crisis, could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 27 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, including ADSs or ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and must act through the depositary to exercise your rights. As an ADS holder, you may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we may convene a shareholders’ meeting upon 14 days’ notice. When a shareholder’s meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we give timely notice, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to rely on an exemption from registration under the Securities Act to distribute such rights and securities. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. 28 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are organized under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are organized in the Cayman Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We conduct substantially all of our current operations in China through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. The majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, because the Cayman Islands law has no legislation specifically dedicated to the rights of investors in securities, and thus no statutorily defined private causes of action to investors in securities such as those found under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the United States, it provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction in the United States. 29 Table of Contents Our management will have considerable discretion as to the use of the net proceeds to be received by us from the initial public offering and you may not agree with our management on these uses. Our management will have considerable discretion in the application of the net proceeds received by us. You will not have the opportunity, as part of your investment decision, to assess whether proceeds are being used appropriately. You must rely on the judgment of our management regarding the application of the net proceeds of the initial public offering. The net proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes that do not improve our efforts to maintain profitability or increase our share price. The net proceeds from the initial public offering may be placed in investments that do not produce income or lose value. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. We have adopted amended and restated articles of association effective upon the effectiveness of this registration statement that contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preference shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preference shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two-thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the current and anticipated valuation of our assets, including goodwill, and composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2010. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, including how the contractual arrangements between us and our affiliated entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules, and we cannot assure you we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See “Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 30 Table of Contents We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 