Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision with respect to our shares. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND CERTAIN OTHER OBLIGATIONS OUR SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS, LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO REACT TO CHANGES IN THE ECONOMY OR OUR INDUSTRY, EXPOSE US TO INTEREST RATE RISK TO THE EXTENT OF OUR VARIABLE RATE DEBT AND PREVENT US FROM MEETING OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR SENIOR NOTES. As a result of the Acquisition, the acquisition of Element K and the acquisition of MindLeaders, we have incurred substantial debt and we are highly leveraged. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness as of January 31, 2014: January 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) Senior Credit Facilities $ 415.9 11.125% Senior Notes due 2018 310.0 Total $ 725.9 Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: · making it more difficult for us to make payments on our 11.125% Senior Notes due 2018 (“Senior Notes”); · increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as the borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest; · restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. At January 31, 2014, we had approximately $415.9 million of debt outstanding under our Senior Credit Facilities, which bear interest based on a floating rate index with a minimum rate of 1.25%. A 0.125% increase to a floating rate greater than 1.25% could cause our annual interest expense to increase by approximately $0.5 million. 14 OUR DEBT AGREEMENTS CONTAIN RESTRICTIONS THAT LIMIT OUR FLEXIBILITY IN OPERATING OUR BUSINESS. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase, our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, merge or consolidate with or into, another company. In addition, our Senior Credit Facilities require us to satisfy a maximum secured leverage ratio financial covenant, which becomes more restrictive over time but less restrictive in connection with certain material acquisitions. Such financial covenant is tested on the last day of each fiscal quarter (but failure to maintain the required ratio would not result in a default under the revolving credit facility so long as the revolving credit facility is undrawn at such time). We pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the Senior Credit Facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them that secure such indebtedness. If the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay the Senior Credit Facilities, as well as our other secured and unsecured indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE AND REPAY OUR DEBT, INCLUDING THE SENIOR NOTES, WILL BE ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON THE CASH FLOW GENERATED BY SKILLSOFT AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. Skillsoft Limited and its subsidiaries own all of our operating assets and conduct all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, is dependent on the generation of cash flow by Skillsoft Limited and its subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions or debt repayments to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Each such subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from them. While the Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes limit the ability of our guarantor subsidiaries to incur consensual encumbrances and include restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive cash from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH TO SERVICE ALL OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS, INCLUDING THE SENIOR NOTES, AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO TAKE OTHER ACTIONS TO SATISFY OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and operating lease obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could otherwise realize from such dispositions and any such proceeds that are realized may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 15 A NOTEHOLDER’S RIGHT TO RECEIVE PAYMENTS ON THE SENIOR NOTES IS EFFECTIVELY JUNIOR TO THOSE LENDERS WHO HAVE A SECURITY INTEREST IN OUR ASSETS. Our obligations under the Senior Notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the Senior Notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our Senior Credit Facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the Senior Credit Facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our and our immediate parent’s tangible and intangible assets, including our stock and the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future subsidiaries. As of January 31, 2014, we had $725.9 million in outstanding debt on our consolidated balance sheet, of which $415.9 million is secured, and $40.0 million of available unused borrowing capacity under the revolving portions of our Senior Credit Facilities. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the Senior Notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the Senior Notes at such time. Because of the structural subordination of the Senior Notes relative to our secured indebtedness, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution, our assets will not be available to pay obligations under the Senior Notes until we have made all payments in cash on our secured indebtedness. We cannot assure you that sufficient assets will remain after all these payments have been made to make any payments on the Senior Notes, including payments of principal or interest when due. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the Senior Notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the Senior Notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the Senior Notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which a noteholder’s claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy such claims fully. The indenture governing the Senior Notes permits us and our restricted subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional senior secured indebtedness. NOTEHOLDERS’ CLAIMS TO OUR ASSETS ARE STRUCTURALLY SUBORDINATED TO ALL OF THE CREDITORS OF ANY NON-GUARANTOR SUBSIDIARIES. Not all of our subsidiaries guarantee the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to indebtedness (and other liabilities) of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, the non-guarantor subsidiaries will pay the holders of their debt and their trade creditors before they will be able to distribute any of their assets to us. The indenture governing the Senior Notes requires that each of our restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries and certain other excluded subsidiaries) that guarantees the obligations under the Senior Credit Facilities or certain of our other indebtedness also become a guarantor of the Senior Notes. Our other subsidiaries are not required to become guarantors of the Senior Notes under the indenture governing the Senior Notes. The terms of the Senior Credit Facilities, including the provisions relating to which our subsidiaries guarantee the obligations under the Senior Credit Facilities, may be amended, modified or waived, and guarantees thereunder may be released, in each case at the lenders’ discretion and without the consent or approval of noteholders. Noteholders will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the Senior Notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries is effectively senior, in respect of the assets of such subsidiaries, to claims of noteholders. As of January 31, 2014, the non-guarantor subsidiaries have no outstanding indebtedness. 16 IF WE DEFAULT ON OUR OBLIGATIONS TO PAY OUR INDEBTEDNESS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAKE PAYMENTS ON THE SENIOR NOTES. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Senior Credit Facilities, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and could substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Senior Credit Facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPURCHASE THE SENIOR NOTES UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we are required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Senior Notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The source of funds for any such purchase of the Senior Notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries’ operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the Senior Notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we are contractually restricted under the terms of our Senior Credit Facilities from repurchasing all of the Senior Notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the Senior Notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our Senior Credit Facilities. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes and a cross-default under the Senior Credit Facilities. The Senior Credit Facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. NOTEHOLDERS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DETERMINE WHEN A CHANGE OF CONTROL GIVING RISE TO THEIR RIGHT TO HAVE THE SENIOR NOTES REPURCHASED BY US HAS OCCURRED FOLLOWING A SALE OF “SUBSTANTIALLY ALL” OF OUR ASSETS. A change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the Senior Notes, requires us to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding Senior Notes. The definition of change of control includes a phrase relating to the sale, lease or transfer of “all or substantially all” of our assets. There is no precisely established definition of the phrase “substantially all” under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of holders of the Senior Notes to require us to repurchase their notes as a result of a sale, lease or transfer of less than all of our assets to another individual, group or entity may be uncertain. 17 FEDERAL AND STATE FRAUDULENT TRANSFER LAWS MAY PERMIT A COURT TO VOID THE SENIOR NOTES OR THE GUARANTEES, AND, IF THAT OCCURS, NOTEHOLDERS MAY NOT RECEIVE ANY PAYMENTS ON THE SENIOR NOTES. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the Senior Notes and the incurrence of the guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the Senior Notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the Senior Notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the Senior Notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: · we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; · the issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; · we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay as they mature; or · we or any of the guarantors were a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. If a court were to find that the issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the Senior Notes or such guarantee or subordinate the Senior Notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the Senior Notes to repay any amounts received. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the Senior Notes may not receive any payment on the Senior Notes. Further, the voidance of the Senior Notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A debtor will generally not be considered to have received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the Senior Notes or the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. BECAUSE SSI II IS INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF IRELAND, IT IS SUBJECT TO THE INSOLVENCY LAWS OF THAT JURISDICTION, INCLUDING “EXAMINERSHIP.” “Examinership” is a court procedure available under the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1990, as amended, to facilitate the survival of companies in financial difficulties. SSI II, its directors, a contingent, prospective or actual creditor of SSI II (including an employee), or shareholders of SSI II, at the date of presentation of the petition, not less than one-tenth of the voting share capital of SSI II are each entitled to petition the court for the appointment of an examiner. The examiner, once appointed, has the power to set aside contracts and arrangements entered into by the company after the time of appointment and, in certain circumstances, can avoid a negative pledge given by the company prior to the time of appointment. During the period of court protection, the examiner will compile proposals for a compromise or scheme of arrangement to assist the survival of the company as a going concern. A scheme of arrangement may be approved by the High Court of Ireland when at least one class of creditors has voted in favor of the proposals and the High Court of Ireland is satisfied that such proposals are fair and equitable in relation to any class of shareholders or creditors who have not accepted the proposals and whose interests would be impaired by implementation of the scheme of arrangement. 18 If an examiner were to be appointed with respect to SSI II: · the principal amount of the Senior Notes may be written down; · any negative pledge in the indenture relating to the Senior Notes or other related transaction documents prohibiting the creation of a security interest or the incurrence of debt by SSI II may be set aside in order to enable the examiner to borrow on behalf of SSI II to fund SSI II during the protection period; and · in the event that a scheme of arrangement is not approved and SSI II subsequently goes into liquidation, the examiner’s remuneration and expenses (including certain borrowings incurred by the examiner on behalf of SSI II and approved by the High Court of Ireland) will take priority over the claims of the noteholders. RISKS RELATED TO THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, LIMITING YOUR ABILITY TO EVALUATE HISTORICAL FINANCIAL RESULTS AND INCREASING THE LIKELIHOOD THAT OUR RESULTS WILL FALL BELOW MARKET ANALYSTS' EXPECTATIONS. Our operating results have historically fluctuated, and our operating results may in the future continue to fluctuate, as a result of factors, which include, without limitation: · the size, timing and successful closing of new/renewal agreements and upgrades; · royalty rates; · the announcement, introduction and acceptance of new products, product enhancements and technologies by us and our competitors; · the mix of sales between our field sales force, our other direct sales channels and our telesales channels; · general conditions in the U.S. and/or the international economy; · the loss of significant customers; · delays in availability of new products; · product or service quality problems; · seasonality—due to the budget and purchasing cycles of our customers, we expect order intake and billings will generally be strongest in the second half of our fiscal year and weakest in the first half of our fiscal year; · the spending patterns of our customers; · litigation costs and expenses; · non-recurring charges related to acquisitions; · growing competition that may result in price reductions and customer loss; and · currency fluctuations. Most of our expenses, such as interest, rent and most employee compensation, do not vary directly with revenue and are difficult to adjust in the short-term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Any such revenue shortfall would, therefore, have a disproportionate effect on our expected operating results for that quarter. 19 PAST AND FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT PRODUCE THE BENEFITS WE ANTICIPATE AND COULD HARM OUR CURRENT OPERATIONS. One aspect of our business strategy is to pursue acquisitions of businesses or technologies that will contribute to our future growth. However, we may not be successful in identifying or consummating attractive acquisition opportunities. Moreover, any acquisitions we do consummate may not produce benefits commensurate with the purchase price we pay or our expectations for the acquisition. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating the technologies, operations, financial controls and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulties in retaining or transitioning customers and employees of the acquired company; · diversion of management time and focus; · the incurrence of unanticipated expenses associated with the acquisition or the assumption of unknown liabilities or unanticipated financial, accounting or other problems of the acquired company; and · accounting charges related to the acquisition, including restructuring charges, transaction costs, write-offs of in-process research and development costs, and subsequent impairment charges relating to goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in the transaction. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IS ESPECIALLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO GENERAL GLOBAL MARKET AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Weakness in the United States, the European Union and/or worldwide economy has had and could continue to have a negative effect on demand for our products and our results of operations. Companies may not view training products and services as critical to the success of their businesses. If these companies continue to experience disappointing operating results, whether as a result of adverse economic conditions, competitive issues or other factors, they may decrease or forgo education and training expenditures before limiting their other expenditures or in conjunction with lowering other expenses. In addition, during economic downturns, customers may slow the rate at which they pay vendors or may become unable to pay their debts as they become due, which would have a negative effect on our results. INCREASED COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN DECREASED DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, WHICH MAY RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND GROSS PROFITS AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. The market for corporate education and training solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. We expect the market to become increasingly competitive due to the lack of significant barriers to entry. In addition to increased competition from new companies entering into the market, established companies are entering into the market through acquisitions of smaller companies, which directly compete with us, and this trend is expected to continue. We may also face competition from publishing companies, educational institutions, vendors of application software and human resource outsourcers, including those vendors with whom we have formed development and marketing alliances. Our primary sources of direct competition are: · third-party suppliers of instructor-led information technology, business, management and professional skills education and training; · technology companies that offer learning courses covering their own technology products; · suppliers of computer-based training and elearning solutions; · internal education, training departments and human resources outsourcers of potential customers; · value-added resellers and network integrators; and · educational institutions. Growing competition may result in price reductions, reduced revenue and gross profits and loss of market share, any one of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition, and we expect to face increasing price pressures from competitors as managers demand more value for their training budgets. Accordingly, we may be unable to provide elearning solutions that compare favorably with new instructor-led techniques, other interactive training software or new elearning solutions. 20 WE RELY ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF THIRD PARTIES TO PROVIDE US WITH EDUCATIONAL CONTENT FOR OUR COURSES AND REFERENCEWARE, AND OUR ALLIANCES WITH THESE THIRD PARTIES MAY BE TERMINATED OR FAIL TO MEET OUR REQUIREMENTS. We rely on a limited number of independent third parties to provide us with the educational content for a majority of our courses based on learning objectives and specific instructional design templates that we provide to them. We do not have exclusive arrangements or long-term contracts with any of these content providers. If one or more of our third party content providers were to stop working with us, we would have to rely on other parties to develop our course content. In addition, these providers may fail to develop new courses or update existing courses on a timely basis. We cannot predict whether new content or enhancements would be available from reliable alternative sources on reasonable terms. In addition, our subsidiary, Books24x7® relies on third party publishers to provide all of the content incorporated into its Referenceware products. If one or more of these publishers were to terminate their license with us, we may not be able to find substitute publishers for such content. In addition, we may be forced to pay increased royalties to these publishers to continue our licenses with them. In the event that we are unable to maintain or expand our current development alliances or enter into new development alliances, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we will be required to pay royalties to some of our development partners on products developed with them, which could reduce our gross margins. We expect that cost of revenue may fluctuate from period to period in the future based upon many factors, including the revenue mix and the timing of expenses associated with development alliances. In addition, the collaborative nature of the development process under these alliances may result in longer development times and less control over the timing of product introductions than for elearning offerings developed solely by us. Our strategic alliance partners may from time to time renegotiate the terms of their agreements with us, which could result in changes to the royalty or other arrangements, adversely affecting our results of operations. The independent third party strategic partners we rely on for educational content and product marketing may compete with us, harming our results of operations. Our agreements with these third parties generally do not restrict them from developing courses on similar topics for our competitors or from competing directly with us. As a result, our competitors may be able to duplicate some of our course content and gain a competitive advantage. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THE RAPIDLY CHANGING MARKET. The market for education and training software is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and preferences and frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies. New methods of providing interactive education in a technology-based format are being developed and offered in the marketplace, including intranet and Internet offerings. In addition, multimedia and other product functionality features are being added to educational software. Our future success will depend upon the extent to which we are able to develop and implement products which address these emerging market requirements on a cost effective and timely basis. Product development is risky because it is difficult to foresee developments in technology coordinate technical personnel and identify and eliminate design flaws. Any significant delay in releasing new products could have a material adverse effect on the ultimate success of our products and could reduce sales of predecessor products. We may not be successful in introducing new products on a timely basis. In addition, new products introduced by us may fail to achieve a significant degree of market acceptance or, once accepted, may fail to sustain viability in the market for any significant period. If we are unsuccessful in addressing the changing needs of the marketplace due to resource, technological or other constraints, or in anticipating and responding adequately to changes in customers' software technology and preferences, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We, along with the rest of the industry, face a challenging and competitive market for IT spending that has resulted in reduced contract values for our formal learning product lines. This pricing pressure has a negative impact on revenue for these product lines and may have a continued or increased adverse impact in the future. THE ELEARNING MARKET IS A DEVELOPING MARKET, AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF ELEARNING IS NOT WIDELY ACCEPTED. The market for elearning is a new and emerging market. Corporate training and education have historically been conducted primarily through classroom instruction and have traditionally been performed by a company's internal personnel. Many companies have invested heavily in their current training solutions. Although technology-based training applications have been available for several years, they currently account for only a small portion of the overall training market. 21 Accordingly, our future success will depend upon the extent to which companies adopt technology-based solutions for their training activities, and the extent to which companies utilize the services or purchase products of third-party providers. Many companies that have already invested substantial resources in traditional methods of corporate training may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may compete with their existing investments. Even if companies implement technology-based training or elearning solutions, they may still choose to design, develop, deliver or manage all or part of their education and training internally. If technology-based learning does not become widespread, or if companies do not use the products and services of third parties to develop, deliver or manage their training needs, then our products and service may not achieve commercial success. NEW PRODUCTS INTRODUCED BY US MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. An important part of our growth strategy is the development and introduction of new products that open up new revenue streams for us. Despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new products, or that any new products we do introduce will be met with commercial acceptance. The failure to successfully introduce new products will not only hamper our growth prospects but may also adversely impact our net income due to the development and marketing expenses associated with those new products. THE SUCCESS OF OUR ELEARNING STRATEGY DEPENDS ON THE RELIABILITY AND CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE OF OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND INTERNET INFRASTRUCTURE. The success of our elearning strategy is highly dependent on the consistent performance of our information systems and Internet infrastructure. If our website fails for any reason or if it experiences any unscheduled downtimes, even for only a short period, our business and reputation could be materially harmed. We have in the past experienced performance problems and unscheduled downtime, and these problems could recur. We currently rely on third parties for proper functioning of computer infrastructure, delivery of our elearning applications and the performance of our destination site. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake, financial patterns of hosting providers and similar events. Any system failures could adversely affect customer usage of our solutions and user traffic results in any future quarters, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results and harm our reputation with corporate customers, subscribers and commerce partners. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website and computer infrastructure are critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain corporate customers, subscribers and commerce partners. We cannot accurately project the rate or timing of any increases in traffic to our website and, therefore, the integration and timing of any upgrades or enhancements required to facilitate any significant traffic increase to the website are uncertain. We have in the past experienced difficulties in upgrading our website infrastructure to handle increased traffic, and these difficulties could recur. The failure to expand and upgrade our website or any system error, failure or extended down time could materially harm our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. BECAUSE MANY USERS OF OUR ELEARNING SOLUTIONS WILL ACCESS THEM OVER THE INTERNET, FACTORS ADVERSELY AFFECTING THE USE OF THE INTERNET OR OUR CUSTOMERS' NETWORKING INFRASTRUCTURES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Many of our customers' users access our elearning solutions over the Internet or through our customers' internal networks. Any factors that adversely affect Internet usage could disrupt the ability of those users to access our elearning solutions, which would adversely affect customer satisfaction and therefore our business. For example, our ability to increase the effectiveness and scope of our services to customers is ultimately limited by the speed and reliability of both the Internet and our customers' internal networks. Consequently, the emergence and growth of the market for our products and services depends upon the improvements being made to the entire Internet as well as to our individual customers' networking infrastructures to alleviate overloading and congestion. If these improvements are not made, and the quality of networks degrades, the ability of our customers to use our products and services will be hindered and our revenue may suffer. 22 Additionally, a requirement for the continued growth of accessing elearning solutions over the Internet is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Failure to prevent security breaches into our products or our customers' networks, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general could significantly harm our growth and revenue. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise of technology we use to protect content and transactions, our products or our customers' proprietary information in our databases. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary and confidential information or could cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to address problems caused by security breaches. The privacy of users may also deter people from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information. WE DEPEND ON A FEW KEY PERSONNEL TO MANAGE AND OPERATE THE BUSINESS AND MUST BE ABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN HIGHLY QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES. Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management. Failure to retain these executives, or the loss of certain additional senior management personnel or other key employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. We are also dependent on the continued service of our key sales, content development and operational personnel and on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. In addition, we depend on writers, programmers, Web designers and graphic artists. We may be unsuccessful in attracting, training, retaining or motivating key personnel. The inability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, new product development efforts and future business prospects. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS THAT HAVE, AND COULD CONTINUE TO, ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Due to our multinational operations, our operating results are subject to fluctuations based upon changes in the exchange rates between the currencies in which revenue is collected or expenses are paid. In particular, the value of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, Singapore dollar and related currencies will impact our operating results. Our expenses will not necessarily be incurred in the currency in which revenue is generated, and, as a result, we will be required from time to time to convert currencies to meet our obligations. These currency conversions are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and changes to the value of these currencies and other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have and could continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. LEGISLATION MAY BE INTRODUCED IN THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS THAT COULD SUBJECT US TO TAXATION AS A U.S. CORPORATION. During the last Congress, legislation was proposed that sought to prevent U.S. companies from taking advantage of lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions. If similar legislation is proposed and enacted, a foreign corporation will be treated, and therefore taxed, as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, if it is (a) either publicly traded or has gross assets of at least $50 million and (b) managed and controlled in the U.S. At this point, it is impossible to tell whether such legislation will be proposed, let alone enacted into law, or whether the provisions of any enacted legislation would apply to Skillsoft. In addition, we believe that if any such proposed legislation does become law, it would not take effect for several years. If any tax legislation of this nature is ultimately adopted, we would assess its impact on us and take steps, where appropriate, to mitigate such impact. However, it is possible that we could become subject to additional taxes as a result of the adoption of such legislation. 23 WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. UNAUTHORIZED USE OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY RESULT IN DEVELOPMENT OF PRODUCTS OR SERVICES THAT COMPETE WITH OURS. Our success depends to a degree upon the protection of our rights in intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We have also entered into, and will continue to enter into, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties to seek to limit and protect the distribution of confidential information. However, we have not signed protective agreements in every case. Although we have taken steps to protect our proprietary rights, these steps may be inadequate. Existing patent, copyright, and trademark laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Additionally, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products, services or technology or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may also breach protective contracts we have executed or will in the future execute. We may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, a breach. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or to determine the validity and scope of our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Even if we were to prevail, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. OUR WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We expect that international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue and are subject to inherent risks, including: · difficulties or delays in developing and supporting non-English language versions of our products and services; · political and economic conditions in various jurisdictions; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; · longer sales cycles and account receivable payment cycles; · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · protectionist laws and business practices that may favor local competitors; · difficulties in finding and managing local resellers; · potential adverse tax consequences; · the absence or significant lack of legal protection for intellectual property rights; and · our smaller presence in particular markets, small number of sales people and small number of products localized. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our future operations outside of the United States, which could negatively impact our future operating results. OUR SALES CYCLE MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO PREDICT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products by that customer typically ranges from three to twelve months or more. Factors that contribute to our long sales cycle, include: · our need to educate potential customers about the benefits of our products; · competitive evaluations by customers; · the customers' internal budgeting and approval processes; · the fact that many customers view training products as discretionary spending, rather than purchases essential to their business; · the fact that we target large companies, which often take longer to make purchasing decisions due to the size and complexity of the enterprise; and · the customers philosophy may not be accepting of our type of solution. 24 These long sales cycles make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN ERRORS. Software products as complex as ours contain known and undetected errors or "bugs" that result in product failures. The existence of bugs could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, diversion of product development resources, injury to reputation or damage to efforts to build brand awareness, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. WE ARE CONTROLLED BY OUR PRINCIPAL EQUITY HOLDERS, WHICH HAVE THE POWER TO TAKE UNILATERAL ACTION THAT COULD BE ADVERSE TO THE INTERESTS OF HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR NOTES. Investment funds controlled by Berkshire Partners LLC ("Berkshire Partners"), Advent International Corporation ("Advent") and Bain Capital Partners, LLC ("Bain Capital" and, together with Berkshire Partners and Advent, the "Sponsors") generally control our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of the Senior Notes. In addition, these equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of the Senior Notes. On March 14, our indirect parent company, SSILuxco S.a.r.l., entered into a definitive agreement to sell Skillsoft to funds managed by Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP. RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS CLAIMS THAT WE INFRINGE UPON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS COULD RESULT IN COSTLY LITIGATION OR ROYALTY PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES, OR REQUIRE US TO REENGINEER OR CEASE SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES. Third parties have in the past and could in the future claim that our current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation or require us to reengineer or cease sales of our products or services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Infringement claims could also result in an injunction barring the sale of our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the combined company or at all. From time to time we learn of parties that claim broad intellectual property rights in the elearning area that might implicate our offerings. These parties or others could initiate actions against us in the future. WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS RESULTING FROM PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS RELATING TO OUR CUSTOMERS' USE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Many of the business interactions supported by our products and services are critical to our customers' businesses. Any failure in a customer's business interaction or other collaborative activity caused or allegedly caused in the future by our products and services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, there can be no assurance that existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. WE COULD BE SUBJECTED TO LEGAL ACTIONS BASED UPON THE CONTENT WE OBTAIN FROM THIRD PARTIES OVER WHOM WE EXERT LIMITED CONTROL. It is possible that we could become subject to legal actions based upon claims that our course content infringes the rights of others or is erroneous. Any such claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and the diversion of our financial resources and management personnel. The risk of such claims is exacerbated by the fact that our course content is provided by third parties over whom we exert limited control. Further, if those claims are successful, we may be required to alter the content, pay financial damages or obtain content from others. 25 IN PRIOR YEARS, SOME OF OUR INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES HAVE NOT COMPLIED WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THEIR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND TAX RETURNS. We operate our business in various foreign countries through subsidiaries organized in those countries. Some of our subsidiaries in the past have been delayed in the filing of their audited statutory financial statements and have been delayed in filing their tax returns in their respective jurisdictions. As a result, some of these foreign subsidiaries may be subject to regulatory restrictions, penalties and fines and additional taxes. OUR TAX RETURNS AND POSITIONS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND AUDIT BY TAXING AUTHORITIES, AND ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME OR OTHER TAX RETURNS, INCLUDING THE ONGOING AUDIT BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE OF OUR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURNS FOR THE TAX YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2010 AND 2011, COULD EXPOSE US TO GREATER THAN ANTICIPATED TAX LIABILITIES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. We are subject to income taxes in Ireland, the United States and numerous other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns are routinely subject to audit and review by the relevant taxing authorities, and such audits and reviews may result in additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As described in Note 7 of the audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, in August 2011 we were notified by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that our U.S. federal income tax return for the tax year ended January 31, 2010 had been selected for examination, and in December 2011 the IRS added our tax return for the tax year ended January 31, 2011 to its examination. During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, the IRS completed its field examination of the Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for the tax years ended January 31, 2010 and 2011. On December 3, 2013, the IRS proposed certain adjustments relating to the value of intellectual property sold by the Company to an Irish affiliate during the Company’s tax year ended January 31, 2010. The IRS proposed adjustments to our reported tax positions would increase the Company’s cumulative tax liability, including interest and penalties by approximately $92.4 million. The Company disagrees with the proposed adjustments and on January 30, 2014 provided to the IRS its formal protest and request that the matter be heard by an IRS Appeals Officer. Based on the Company’s view of the merits of the position taken by the IRS in its proposed adjustments and on discussions with its tax advisors, the Company has concluded that recording a liability for the proposed adjustments related to the above issue is not required. The Company expects to continue to contest the proposed adjustments and is working with its outside tax advisors and the IRS to resolve this dispute in a timely and effective manner. Although the Company believes that the estimates of income taxes payable included in its financial statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Company will prevail in the final resolution of the proposed adjustments and, in addition, the Company may determine to settle the matter for business or other reasons for an amount in excess of any tax liability that the Company believes is owed. As a result, the actual income taxes payable by the Company may differ from what is reflected in the Company’s historical income tax provisions and accruals and such differences could be material. If the IRS prevails or the Company determines to settle the matter, a cash payment could be required, thereby negatively and adversely impacting the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company will continue to reassess the adequacy of its existing tax reserves as the matter progresses and, through that process, the Company may determine the need to increase its existing reserves by a material amount. We are unable to predict the outcome of this or any other tax audit or its potential impact on our operating results or financial position. Regardless of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management time and attention resulting from the IRS examination, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We will continue to reassess the adequacy of our existing tax reserves as the examination progresses and, through that process, we may determine the need to increase our existing reserves by a material amount. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 