Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. We seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase our securities.Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on a single customer, the U.S. Government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Our business is primarily dependent upon the design, construction, repair, maintenance, fleet support and life cycle services of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the U.S. Navy and coastal defense surface ships for the U.S. Coast Guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul of nuclear-powered ships for the U.S. Navy. Substantially all of our revenues in 2012 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. Government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. In addition, substantially all of our backlog was U.S. Government related as of December 31, 2012. We are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies. The related contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. Any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the U.S. Government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination.We are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For certain programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and may receive additional funding only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. The impact of Congressional actions to reduce the debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. The level of future appropriations for defense programs became more uncertain following Congress' consideration of the debt ceiling in August 2011 and the failure of a joint committee of Congress to identify up to $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions in November 2011, as required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 ("Budget Control Act"). As a result of such failure, up to $500 billion in automatic spending cuts to defense programs from 2013 to 2021, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, plus an additional $500 billion to non-defense discretionary programs over this period, including the U.S. Coast Guard, could be triggered under the Budget Control Act beginning in 2013, or cuts could be effected through other congressional actions. This sequestration could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. The Budget Control Act cut a total of $487 billion from defense spending over the next decade, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending, and the $500 billion of sequestration cuts in defense programs would be added to that amount. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 ("American Taxpayer Relief Act") enacted on January 2, 2013, delayed the implementation of sequestration to March 1, 2013. The delay in sequestration leaves the DoD less time to enact the 2013 automatic spending cuts, adding to the uncertainty from such cuts. The federal debt ceiling is also 11Table of Contentsexpected to be reached in the first half of 2013. Congress and the Administration continue to debate these issues, and the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future defense spending plans.U.S. Government operations, including defense programs, for Fiscal Year 2013 are being funded under a continuing resolution ("CR"), which expires on March 27, 2013. The CR generally provides funding at Fiscal Year 2012 levels and effectively eliminates new contract starts, which impacts some of the programs in which we participate. For example, the U.S. Navy has announced that commencement of the RCOH for CVN-72 USS Abraham Lincoln, which had been scheduled for February 2013, will be postponed due to funding uncertainty resulting from the absence of a defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2013. It is unclear whether annual appropriations bills will be passed for Fiscal Year 2013. The U.S. Government may operate under a CR for all of Fiscal Year 2013, potentially resulting in no new contract or program starts for the fiscal year. Any significant delays in contract starts affecting our programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The impact of the continuing federal fiscal debates remains uncertain, and we cannot predict the impact that the delayed sequestration cuts, other defense spending cuts, or lack of a current year defense appropriations bill will have on funding for our individual programs. Long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. In addition, defense spending cuts and delays could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors. Our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding, which would adversely affect our future sales under such programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in customer priorities due to military transformation and planning or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the U.S. Government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs already incurred on the contracts and profit related to those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. Termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. Any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business.Our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. Cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost. Reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and product quality, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer and natural disasters. The process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. A significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our U.S. Government customer depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. Our U.S. Government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("FFP"), fixed price incentive ("FPI"), cost plus incentive fee ("CPIF"), cost plus fixed fee ("CPFF") and cost plus award fee ("CPAF") contracts. Under FFP contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. FPI contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the U.S. Government and us. The U.S. Government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, 12Table of Contentstypically 125-135% of target cost. Our profit on FPI contracts varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. Under CPIF, CPFF and CPAF contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the U.S. Government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. Under CPIF contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. Under CPFF contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. Under CPAF contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. Of Ingalls' revenues in 2012, approximately 78% were generated from FPI contracts, approximately 11% were generated from CPAF contracts, approximately 9% were generated from CPFF contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from FFP contracts. Of Newport News' 2012 revenues, approximately 42% were generated from CPIF contracts, which primarily included aircraft carrier construction and RCOH, approximately 32% were generated from CPFF contracts, approximately 24% were generated from FPI contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction, approximately 1% were generated from CPAF contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from FFP contracts. To the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. Our earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform under contracts. When agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. These projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance and the timing of product deliveries. We may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. If actual events differ significantly from one or more of our assumptions, projections or estimates, or if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected.Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and sub-systems for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. We are subject to potential delivery disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. Through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our U.S. Government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. Even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. In addition, significant delay in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. Due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently certain components for which only one supplier exists. The inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our results of operations depend on awards of new contracts. The prospects of U.S. shipyards, including ours, are materially affected by their success in securing significant U.S. Navy contract awards. In February 2006, the U.S. Navy presented to Congress a goal of achieving and maintaining a fleet of 313 ships. Each year, the U.S. Navy presents to Congress the Navy's Annual Report to Congress on Long-Range Plan for Construction of Naval Vessels (the "Shipbuilding Plan"), which includes the Navy's shipbuilding plan for the next five years and a long-range projection of new ship construction for the following 25 years. The U.S. Navy's Shipbuilding Plan for fiscal year 2013 (the "2013 Shipbuilding Plan") included a 13Table of Contentsfleet goal of 310 to 316 ships, down from the fleet goal of 328 ships included in the Navy's Shipbuilding Plan for fiscal year 2012 (the "2012 Shipbuilding Plan"), and the procurement of 268 ships over the next 30 years, down from the 275-ship procurement included in the 2012 Shipbuilding Plan. The DoD released in January 2012 the Defense Strategic Guidance, a new set of strategic military priorities and guidance. The U.S. Navy recently released its 2013 Navy Combatant Vessel Force Structure Assessment (the "2013 Force Structure Assessment"), a comprehensive description of the Navy's current ship requirements in light of the Defense Strategic Guidance. The 2013 Force Structure Assessment includes a fleet of 306 ships as a baseline. Significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the U.S. Navy would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We believe our shipbuilding programs are a high priority for national defense, but, under budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended or terminated by our U.S. Government customers. Specific actions already taken that could negatively affect us include the deferral of production of new amphibious ships, the reduction in the number of planned large surface combatants, an increase in the procurement interval for aircraft carriers beyond five years, and postponement of the commencement of the RCOH for CVN-72 USS Abraham Lincoln. In response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the DoD may result in a decreased need for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 40% of our consolidated revenue. Significant reductions in Congressional appropriations for our shipbuilding programs or significant delays in such appropriations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Department of Defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. In November 2010, the DoD announced certain initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the DoD, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. These initiatives are organized into five major areas: Affordability and Cost Growth; Productivity and Innovation; Competition; Services Acquisition; and Processes and Bureaucracy. Our understanding is that these initiatives are intended to reduce costs and enhance efficiencies and productivity. As described by a senior DoD official, they are intended to enable the DoD to do more without more. In November 2012, the DoD further expanded its focus on business process improvement by introducing Better Buying Power 2.0 ("BBP 2.0") to enhance its focus on the acquisition workforce by establishing higher standards and stronger professional qualification requirements for key leadership positions and continuing to increase the cost consciousness of the acquisition workforce. BBP 2.0 also includes new initiatives focused on enforcing affordability caps, controlling costs through cost performance measures, encouraging stronger partnerships with the requirements community, and incentivizing industry by aligning profitability more tightly with DoD goals and employing appropriate contract types. DoD's focus on business practices is expected to impact the contracting environment in which we do business with our DoD customers as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the DoD. We are taking steps internally to assess how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to proposals and revise our areas of focus. Depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. Shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost and schedule performance on our contracts. We must develop and sustain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. If we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of engineers and skilled workers at competitive costs and with requisite skills and/or security clearances. At the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. Development and 14Table of Contentsmaintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. If qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts or attracting new business. Competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. We believe the programs and number of ship constructions, refuelings and overhauls and inactivations currently planned by the U.S. Navy over the next several years will remain relatively steady; however, U.S. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. While the U.S. Navy's 2013 Shipbuilding Plan anticipates a fleet size of 310 to 316 ships, the plan does not include enough ships to fully support all elements of the Navy's 310 to 316 ships goal over the 30-year period. The U.S. Navy currently projects that shortfalls would occur at various points during this 30-year period in ballistic missile submarines, cruisers-destroyers, attack submarines and amphibious ships. The U.S. Navy recently released the 2013 Force Structure Assessment to address the Navy's current ship requirements in light of the Defense Strategic Guidance released by the DoD in 2012. The 2013 Force Structure Assessment includes a fleet of 306 ships as a baseline . Reductions in U.S. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. We compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants, and we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build our products. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe that two existing U.S. Government-owned shipyards, one in the Pacific Northwest and the other in the Mid-Atlantic, could refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel and training were made. U.S. Government-owned shipyards engage in the refueling, overhaul and inactivation of SSN-688 Los Angeles-class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. The 2012 Act required DoD to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. The 2013 Act, however, modified the 2012 Act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. The 2013 Act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. Similarly, the 2013 Act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. If a U.S. Government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the business of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We also compete in the engineering, planning and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on future U.S. Navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design and future surface combatant and amphibious assault ship programs. Our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. As the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. Bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. Even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have performed.Overcapacity in the U.S. shipbuilding market may reduce our market share or our ability to secure contract awards at profitable prices. The reduced level of shipbuilding activity by the U.S. Navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 288 ships as of December 31, 2012, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. The general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. Six major private United States shipyards, three of which are our shipyards, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair and convert naval vessels. We have announced our intention to cease all military shipbuilding operations in our Louisiana facilities by the end of 2013. Competition for future shipbuilding programs is expected to be intense. Additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and other ships, compete for funding with each 15Table of Contentsother, as well as with other defense products and services. Future rationalization of shipyard capacity in the United States might occur, and we could be affected by shipyard consolidation or closures as a result of the reduced level of U.S. Navy spending on ship construction. Any further reduction could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. Government audit or investigation. U.S. Government contractors must comply with a variety of significant regulations, including procurement, nuclear and other requirements. These regulations and related requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. Our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which mandates increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. Changes in regulations and related requirements can increase our compliance costs and reduce our profit margins. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its various agencies, such as the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the DCAA and the DCMA. These agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and internal policies. Systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs we incur that are found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension and prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. Allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government has the ability, pursuant to recent regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments, if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. We have existing contracts subject to the new contractor business systems regulations and expect our future contracts to be subject to such regulations. For our contracts subject to the new regulations, the U.S. Government has, in certain instances, withheld payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. We are modifying our affected business systems to address the U.S. Government's concerns. As with other government contractors, the U.S. Government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. These recommendations sometimes involve substantial amounts. In response to U.S. Government audits, investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion in the past made minor adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. Such audits, investigations and inquiries may result in reductions of our contract prices in the future. We are also subject, from time to time, to U.S. Government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or are expected to comply with a variety of federal laws, including the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Cost Accounting Standards. If we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, the assessment of penalties and fines or compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Such findings or convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting. Given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 16Table of ContentsMany of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require certain manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. We design, develop and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. First-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the U.S. Navy, other contractors, or us. Problems in developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in maintaining the design schedule needed for construction. The risk associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. Late delivery of information can cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. Our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship and unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received. We have experienced quality issues in the past with respect to products and services that we sell to our U.S. Government customer. These issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. We may discover additional quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. Such quality issues that might arise in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not realize the anticipated benefits or may incur additional costs related to the wind down of military shipbuilding at our Louisiana facilities and the consolidation of all Ingalls construction into our Mississippi facilities. We have announced our intention to wind down military shipbuilding at Avondale, our Louisiana shipyard, by the end of 2013 and two Louisiana components facilities in 2013, after delivering LPD-25 Somerset, the San Antonio-class ship currently under construction at Avondale, and consolidate all Ingalls military shipbuilding into our Mississippi facilities. We intend to shift construction of future LPD-class ships to a single production line at our Pascagoula shipyard to reduce costs and increase efficiency. We cannot provide any assurances that shifting Avondale's military shipbuilding to our Pascagoula facility will result in our realization of anticipated benefits from serial production at that facility. In connection with the increased utilization of our employees and facilities in our Pascagoula shipyard, we may encounter difficulties adhering to back-to-back production schedules. An inability to adhere to production schedules could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely perform our existing contracts and our ability to obtain new contracts in the future. Moreover, the concentration of our Ingalls workforce in Pascagoula and Gulfport may inhibit our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and trained employees to perform the increased workload in these locations. Any failure to attract and retain the necessary workforce, or to effectively manage and control third-party contractors, could adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We anticipate that we will incur substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, currently estimated at $256 million, related to the wind down of our operations at Avondale. We believe that substantially all such expenses will be recoverable under existing flexibly-priced contracts or future negotiated contracts in accordance with FAR provisions governing the treatment of restructuring and shutdown related costs. The DCAA prepared an initial audit report on our July 30, 2010, cost recovery proposal of $310 million, which stated that the proposal was not adequately supported for the DCAA to reach a conclusion and questioned approximately $25 million, or 8%, of the costs included in the proposal. We then submitted a revised proposal dated October 12, 2011 to address the concerns of the DCAA and to reflect a revised estimated total cost of $271 million. We received a supplemental audit report, which again stated that the proposal was not sufficiently supported to allow the DCAA to reach a 17Table of Contentsconclusion. The amount and percentage of questioned costs were materially unchanged from the previous audit report. We intend to submit another revised proposal that addresses the DCAA concerns and supports our current restructuring cost estimate of $256 million.Although closure is still the baseline assumption for Avondale, we are pursuing engineering and manufacturing opportunities in the energy infrastructure market. If we are successful in pursuing such opportunities, and Avondale remains open, we would submit a revised restructuring proposal to the U.S. Navy consistent with this change. In such event, we expect that our total estimated restructuring costs would decrease. While the restructuring costs that are currently capitalized as incurred, consisting primarily of severance and retention payments, should remain recoverable under existing or future U.S. Navy contracts, other Avondale costs would remain as part of Avondale's new line of business. Whether we close Avondale entirely or keep the facility open in a new line of business, we currently do not have an agreement with the U.S. Navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down at Avondale. We may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. These potential costs, of which we are not currently aware and which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. The actual restructuring expenses we incur in connection with our wind down of Avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate, and any inability to recover such costs could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. The size and nature of many of our contracts makes the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. For new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction on ships that are not completely designed. Assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. Assumptions must be made for all ship contracts regarding the length of time to complete the contract, because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions must be made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards and penalties related to contract performance are considered in estimating revenues and profit rates, and are recorded when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above to our contract accounting, materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. Future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Item 7. Our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have significant operations located in regions of the United States that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. Although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. Natural disasters could disrupt our facilities, systems or projects, which could interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. In addition, should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position in this section. Our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform their contracts. Performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on a contract, which could 18Table of Contentsreduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer or insurers. Such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. Natural disasters can also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. These disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. Environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of our performance under our contracts with the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. We seek to identify and obtain, in established markets, insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the U.S. Government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. Not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. In addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. Such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 50% of our approximately 37,000 employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements. Newport News has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in March 2013, April 2014 and June 2014. Ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover Pascagoula and Gulfport employees and one of which covers Avondale employees. The five Pascagoula/Gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in March 2015, and the Avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration.We must negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. Collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. While we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties with renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. We have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. If we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity and contributions to our pension and retiree health care plans in future periods. Our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to assumptions regarding the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Variances from these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term return on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding to the plans. Timing differences exist between the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), pension funding requirements and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. Such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our 19Table of Contentscash flow from operations. On December 27, 2011, the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS") Board issued its final CAS Harmonization Rule (the "Harmonization Rule"). The new rule will impact pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after February 27, 2012. Although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on CAS-covered contracts awarded prior to the February 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment.For a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Item 7. Unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns or other actions commonly referred to as "green initiatives." We expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. The nature of shipbuilding operations requires the use of hazardous materials. Our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. In order to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. In addition, handling of these materials sometimes results in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways where we operate. Our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable regulations. See Environmental, Health and Safety in Item 1. Various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. Stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. Environmental laws and regulations also impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. In addition, if we are found to be in violation of the Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the EPA on the "Excluded Parties List" maintained by the General Services Administration, which would continue until the EPA concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. Facilities on the "Excluded Parties List" are prohibited from working on any U.S. Government contract. The adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under previously priced contracts or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We have announced our intention to wind down military shipbuilding at our Louisiana facilities, which we anticipate will be completed by the end of 2013. Our wind down of operations at these facilities may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. Such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 20Table of ContentsMarket volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. The financial and credit markets have historically experienced high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. We may access these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. Depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. A tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers' ability to obtain financing. Delays in suppliers' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to meet our contract obligations. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. We have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. These transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. We have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. We may not, however, prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. Any improper actions could subject us to civil and criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.In January 2013, we disclosed to the DoD, including the U.S. Navy, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, including the U.S. Coast Guard, pursuant to the FAR, that we had initiated an internal investigation regarding whether certain employees at Ingalls mischarged time or misstated progress on U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard contracts. We are conducting an internal investigation, led by external counsel, and have taken remedial actions, including the termination of employees in instances where we believed grounds for termination existed. We are providing information regarding our investigation to the relevant government agencies. We have agreed with the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard to a withhold of $24 million in payments on existing contracts pending additional information from our internal investigation. Some or all of these funds may be released from the withhold based upon the results of the investigation. Depending upon the U.S. Government's assessment of the matters under investigation, we could be subject to significant civil penalties, criminal fines, and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting. Although we do not currently believe that this matter will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new information might come to light in the future and can therefore give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of this matter. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. As a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the U.S. Government. While we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the U.S. Government's proprietary and classified information. We could face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers. We could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. Our information 21Table of Contentstechnology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities or other disruptions could expose us to reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. The design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities and our other nuclear operations at various DoE sites and commercial nuclear power plants subject us to various risks, including:Potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components;Unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the U.S. Navy, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or the DoE;Reputational harm;Potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; andRegulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations.Failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. If an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs.Our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, DoE and Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the situation. In addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, DoE and Nuclear Regulatory Commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the U.S. Navy and DoE generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. We may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities that we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. For our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. Such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. As part of our business strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire a non-controlling or controlling interest in a business. These investments are made following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. Business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions and judgments in determining acquisition prices, which prices must be allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. Notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. As of December 31, 2012, goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 14% and 9%, respectively, of our recorded total assets. We evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on November 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. We evaluate purchased intangibles when evidence of potential impairment exists. The impairment test is based on several factors requiring 22Table of Contentsjudgment. As a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangibles. Adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our common stock price could also result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. In light of the adverse equity market conditions that began in the second quarter of 2011 and the resultant decline in industry market multiples and our market capitalization, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of September 30, 2011. As a result, we recorded a preliminary goodwill impairment charge totaling $300 million in the third quarter of 2011, which was subsequently reduced to $290 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 after we completed our impairment analysis. Future declines in equity market multiples or the trading price of our common stock, or other factors such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins at Ingalls could lead to future impairments of goodwill. Any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. Changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. The final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. As of December 31, 2012, the estimated value of our uncertain tax positions was a potential liability of $21 million, which includes accrued interest and penalties. If our positions are sustained by the taxing authority in our favor, the reversal of the liability would reduce our income tax provision and cost of sales and service revenues. However, we cannot guarantee that such positions will be sustained in our favor. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. We may have limited control over such arrangements and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. In any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. We and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default by or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. Any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. Operating through joint ventures in which we are the minority holder gives us limited control over many decisions made with respect to the related joint venture projects and internal controls relating to such projects. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. When entering into joint ventures, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive. Such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns.23Table of ContentsWe might in the future make strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties.In pursuing our business strategies, we expect to review, evaluate and consider potential acquisitions and investments. In evaluating such transactions, we will have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities. In addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating newly-acquired businesses, challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential value impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. If we fail to manage acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. We are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position. The size, type and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims and litigation, including environmental claims, which, if not resolved within accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Any claims and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. The following paragraphs describe pending claims and litigation that, if determined adversely for amounts that exceed accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows:In the second quarter of 2007, the U.S. Coast Guard issued a revocation of acceptance under the Deepwater Modernization Program for eight converted 123-foot patrol boats (the "vessels") based on alleged "hull buckling and shaft alignment problems" and alleged "nonconforming topside equipment" on the vessels. We submitted a written response that argued that the revocation of acceptance was improper. The U.S. Coast Guard advised ICGS, which was formed by us and Lockheed Martin to perform the Deepwater Modernization Program, that it was seeking $96 million from ICGS as a result of the revocation of acceptance. The majority of the costs associated with the conversion effort are associated with the alleged structural deficiencies of the vessels, which were converted under contracts with us and one of our subcontractors. In 2008, the U.S. Coast Guard advised ICGS that the U.S. Coast Guard would support an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice of ICGS and its subcontractors, instead of pursuing its $96 million claim independently. The Department of Justice conducted an investigation of ICGS under a sealed False Claims Act complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas and decided in early 2009 not to intervene at that time. In February 2009, the District Court unsealed the complaint filed by Michael J. DeKort, a former Lockheed Martin employee, against us, ICGS, and Lockheed Martin relating to the vessel conversion effort. Damages under the False Claims Act may be trebled upon a finding of liability. Following the resolution of certain claims between the relator and a co-defendant, the District Court entered a final judgment in March 2011 dismissing the relator's remaining claims. The relator appealed the dismissal of the remaining claims to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and, in July 2012, the Fifth Circuit issued a per curiam decision affirming the judgment of the District Court dismissing the relator's remaining claims. While we do not believe that remaining issues relating to conversion of the vessels will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims or litigation might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome.We and our predecessors-in-interest are defendants in several hundred cases filed in numerous jurisdictions around the country wherein former and current employees and various third parties allege exposure to asbestos-containing materials on, or associated with, our premises or while working on vessels constructed or repaired by us. The cases allege various injuries, including those associated with pleural plaque disease, asbestosis, cancer, mesothelioma and other alleged asbestos-related conditions. In some cases, several of our former executive officers are also named as defendants. Although we believe the ultimate resolution of these cases will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims or litigation might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related litigation.24Table of Contents In January 2011, the U.S. Department of Justice first informed us, through Northrop Grumman, of a False Claims Act complaint (the "Complaint") that was filed under seal in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The redacted copy of the Complaint we received alleges that, through largely unspecified fraudulent means, we and Northrop Grumman obtained federal funds that were restricted by law for the consequences of Hurricane Katrina, and used those funds to cover costs under certain shipbuilding contracts that were unrelated to Hurricane Katrina and for which Northrop Grumman and we were not entitled to recovery under the contracts. The Complaint seeks monetary damages of at least $835 million, plus penalties, attorneys' fees and other costs of suit. Damages under the False Claims Act may be trebled upon a finding of liability.On July 31, 2012, the District Court entered an order permitting us to disclose certain information not included in the redacted copy of the Complaint we received, including the date the Complaint was filed, the decision of the U.S. Department of Justice to decline intervention in the case and the principal parties involved in the case. The Complaint was filed on June 2, 2010, by relators Gerald M. Fisher and Donald C. Holmes. On December 8, 2011, the Department of Justice filed a Notice of Election to Decline Intervention in the case. As of August 29, 2012, Gerald M. Fisher was no longer a relator in or party to this case. Based upon a review to date of the information available to us, we believe that we have substantive defenses to the allegations in the Complaint, that the claims as set forth in the Complaint evidence a fundamental lack of understanding of the terms and conditions in our shipbuilding contracts, including the post-Katrina modifications to those contracts, and the manner in which the parties performed in connection with the contracts, and that the claims as set forth in the Complaint lack merit. We intend to defend this matter vigorously. While we believe that the claims as set forth in the Complaint will not result in a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. We own or have the right to use certain patents, trademarks, copyrights and other forms of intellectual property. The U.S. Government has rights to use certain intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. Our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. We also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. These agreements may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information.In the event our intellectual property rights are infringed, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention away from other aspects of our business. In addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. In instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their proprietary intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms.Our debt exposes us to certain risks. As of December 31, 2012, we had $1,830 million of debt and $650 million of additional borrowing and letter of credit capacity under our credit facility ("Credit Facility"). Our current level of debt could have important consequences, including:Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and general corporate purposes; 25Table of ContentsIncreasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; Exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our Credit Facility are subject to variable rates of interest; Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Because we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our debt. Moreover, despite our current level of debt, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes and our Credit Facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our Credit Facility limit our ability, among other things, to: Incur additional debt; Pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; Prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our debt; Make investments; Sell assets; Enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; Enter into transactions with our affiliates; and Incur liens. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our Credit Facility limits the amount of our capital expenditures and requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, among others. These covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. These covenants limit the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. These covenants may, therefore, limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business.Risks Related to the Spin-Off We may be responsible for U.S. federal income tax liabilities that relate to our spin-off from Northrop Grumman. Our spin-off from Northrop Grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that Northrop Grumman, Northrop Grumman's stockholders and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by Northrop Grumman's stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. If all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, Northrop Grumman would recognize a substantial gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In such case, under IRS regulations, each member of Northrop Grumman's consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. federal income tax liability. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution will be taxable to Northrop Grumman pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of the stock of either Northrop Grumman or us representing 50% 26Table of Contentsor more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. Any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the distribution, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. The tax liability resulting from the application of Section 355(e) would be substantial, and, under IRS regulations, each member of the Northrop Grumman consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. federal income tax liability. We agreed with Northrop Grumman, as part of the spin-off, not to enter into any transaction that could reasonably be expected to cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to Northrop Grumman, including under Section 355(e). We also agreed to indemnify Northrop Grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. The amount of any such indemnification could be substantial. In addition, these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. Our spin-off from Northrop Grumman may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. A court could determine that Northrop Grumman did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for distributing our common stock or taking other actions as part of the spin-off, or that we did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring indebtedness, including the debt incurred by us in connection with the spin-off, transferring assets or taking other actions as part of the spin-off and, at the time of such actions, we or Northrop Grumman (i) were insolvent or would be rendered insolvent, (ii) had reasonably small capital with which to carry on our respective businesses and all businesses in which we intended to engage or (iii) intended to incur, or believed we would incur, debts beyond our ability to repay such debts as they would mature. In such event, the court could void the spin-off as a constructive fraudulent transfer. If such court made this determination, the court could impose a number of different remedies, including voiding our liens and claims against Northrop Grumman or providing Northrop Grumman with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by Northrop Grumman and the fair market value of our company at the time of the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, Northrop Grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the respective business or businesses that we own and operate following the spin-off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Northrop Grumman, such as certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if Northrop Grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform its allocated obligations.Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our indebtedness could limit our future ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our dividend policy is established by our board of directors based upon our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. The terms of the agreements governing our existing debt or debt that we may incur in the future may limit or prohibit payments of dividends. In addition, the amount of our existing and any additional future debt may limit our ability to pay dividends. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, even if declared by our board of directors, may be impaired. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend on our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. For example, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals, cause delays 27Table of Contentsor prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. We agreed with Northrop Grumman, in connection with our spin-off, not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition, including issuance, of our common stock or any other transaction, or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction that could reasonably be expected to cause the spin-off to be taxable to Northrop Grumman. We also agreed to indemnify Northrop Grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. Generally, Northrop Grumman will recognize taxable gain on the spin-off if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. Any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the spin-off, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, unless we can rebut that presumption. The amount of any indemnification payment we may be required to pay to Northrop Grumman resulting from any such transactions could be substantial. Our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the U.S. Navy. Consequently, the U.S. Navy has required us to include in our contracts with the Navy express terms regarding notice and approval rights in the event of change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the Navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear work for the Navy. Such terms require us to provide the U.S. Navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the Navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses to facilitate the Navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. We have included such terms in solicitations for future U.S. Navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the Navy for nuclear work. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Restated Bylaws, our obligations to Northrop Grumman relating to the spin-off and our existing contracts with the U.S. Navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere were no unresolved staff comments.