ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Other risks are also described in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4125 per unit or any other amount. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and natural gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. We intend to reserve a portion of our cash generated from operations to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties to maintain and grow our oil and natural gas reserves. The amount of cash we actually generate will depend upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on other factors, including: · the amount of oil, NGLs and natural gas we produce; · the prices at which we sell our oil, NGL and natural gas production; · the effectiveness of our commodity price hedging strategy; · the cost to produce our oil and natural gas assets; · the level of our capital expenditures, including scheduled and unexpected maintenance expenditures; · the cost of acquisitions; · our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility; · prevailing economic conditions; · sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; · debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility or future debt agreements; · interest payments; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; 25 Table Of Contents · general and administrative expenses; and · the amount of cash reserves, which we expect to be substantial, established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be less than the minimum quarterly distribution that we expect to distribute. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our estimated oil and natural gas reserves will naturally decline over time, and it is unlikely that we will be able to sustain distributions at the level of our minimum quarterly distribution without making accretive acquisitions or substantial capital expenditures that maintain our asset base. Our future oil and natural gas reserves, production volumes, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our unitholders depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. Based on our December 31, 2010 reserve report, the average decline rate for our existing proved developed producing reserves is approximately 10% for 2011, approximately 8% compounded average decline for the subsequent five years and approximately 7% thereafter. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our asset base, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures may fluctuate each quarter, we will reserve substantial amounts of cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We estimate that an average annual capital expenditure of $12.5 million will enable us to maintain the current level of production from our assets through December 31, 2015. We may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we may be unable to pay distributions at the minimum quarterly distribution from cash generated from operations and would therefore have to reduce our distributions. If our reserves decrease and we do not reduce our distribution, then a portion of the distribution may be considered a return of part of a unitholder’s investment in us as opposed to a return on his investment. If we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to sustain our business operations and would therefore have to reduce our distributions to our unitholders. Our acquisition and development operations will require substantial capital expenditures. We expect to fund these capital expenditures using cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof, which could adversely affect our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate or at all. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial growth capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We intend to finance our future growth capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under new our credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: · our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves; · the amount of oil, NGL and natural gas we produce from existing wells; · the prices at which we sell our production; 26 Table Of Contents · the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production; · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; · the ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and · our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. The use of cash generated from operations to fund growth capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If the borrowing base under our credit facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in estimated reserves or production or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed to fund our growth capital expenditures, our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future growth capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders at the then-current distribution rate or at all. Oil and natural gas prices are very volatile. A decline in oil or natural gas prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which could cause us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. The oil and natural gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · weather conditions and the occurrence of natural disasters; · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries globally, including terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war; · actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; · the effect of increasing liquefied natural gas, or LNG, deliveries to and exports from the United States; · the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; · technological advances affecting energy supply and energy consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; 27 Table Of Contents · the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; · the availability of refining capacity; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during 2010, the NYMEX–WTI oil price ranged from a high of $91.51 per Bbl to a low of $68.01 per Bbl, while the NYMEX–Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $6.01 per MMBtu to a low of $3.29 per MMBtu. For the five years ended December 31, 2010, the NYMEX–WTI oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $33.87 per Bbl, while the NYMEX–Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu to a low of $2.51 per MMBtu. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices of and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: · limit our ability to enter into commodity derivative contracts at attractive prices; · negatively impact the value and quantities of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce; · reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; · limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital; and · impair our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. If we raise our distribution levels in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating hedge positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. Increases in the differential between the benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. We do not have or plan to have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Future price declines may result in a write-down of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, capital expenditures that do not generate equivalent or greater value in estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimated future operating, development or abandonment costs or deterioration in our exploitation results. 28 Table Of Contents We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under this method, all costs associated with property exploration and development (including costs of surrendered and abandoned leaseholds, delay lease rentals, dry holes and direct overhead related to exploration and development activities) and the fair value of estimated future costs of site restoration, dismantlement and abandonment activities are capitalized. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of our oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, if applicable, calculated using the applicable price calculation for the period tested, as adjusted for “basis” or location differentials, or net wellhead prices held constant over the life of the reserves. Under current rules, which became effective for ceiling tests in 2009, the ceiling limitation calculation uses the SEC methodology to calculate the present value of future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves. For prior periods, the ceiling limitation calculation used oil and natural gas prices in effect as of the balance sheet date, as adjusted for basis or location differentials as of the balance sheet date, and held constant over the life of the reserves. If the net book value of our oil and natural gas properties exceeds our ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or “write down” the book value of our oil and natural gas properties. A ceiling test write-down would not impact cash flow from operating activities, but it would reduce partners’ equity on our balance sheet. The risk of a required ceiling test write-down of the book value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred. Our hedging strategy may be ineffective in removing the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows, which could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we use commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our commodity derivative contracts. For example, some of the commodity derivative contracts we utilize are based on quoted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual prices we realize in our operations for oil and natural gas. Our credit facility also limits the amount of commodity derivative contracts we can enter into and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of our production volumes. For 2011, approximately 28% of our estimated total oil and natural gas production, based on our reserve report dated December 31, 2010, is not currently covered by commodity derivative contracts. In addition, none of our estimated total NGL production is covered by commodity derivative contracts. Likewise, we do not have or plan to have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” We have adopted a hedging policy to reduce the impact to our cash flows from commodity price volatility. We intend to enter into commodity derivative contracts at times and on terms desired to maintain a portfolio of commodity derivative contracts covering approximately 65% to 85% of our estimated oil and natural gas production over a three-to-five year period at a given point of time. As opposed to entering into commodity derivative contracts at predetermined times or on prescribed terms, we intend to enter into commodity derivative contracts in connection with material increases in our estimated reserves and at times when we believe market conditions or other circumstances suggest that it is prudent to do so. Additionally, we may take advantage of opportunities to modify our commodity derivative portfolio to change the percentage of our hedged production volumes when circumstances suggest that it is prudent to do so. However, our price hedging strategy and future hedging transactions will be determined at the discretion of our general partner, which is not under an obligation to enter into commodity derivative contracts covering a specific portion of our production. The prices at which we enter into commodity derivative contracts covering our production in the future will be dependent upon oil and natural gas prices at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than current oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil and natural gas prices received for our future production. Conversely, our hedging strategy may limit our ability to realize cash flows from commodity price increases. It is also possible that a substantially larger percentage of our future production will not be hedged as compared with the next few years, which would result in our oil and natural gas revenues becoming more sensitive to commodity price changes. 29 Table Of Contents In addition, our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into commodity derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the notional amount of our commodity derivative contracts, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our commodity derivative contracts without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, substantially diminishing our liquidity. There may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the commodity derivative contract and the actual price received, which may result in payments to our derivative counterparty that are not offset by our receipt of higher prices from our production in the field. As a result of these factors, our commodity derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty’s liquidity, which could impair their ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty’s creditworthiness or ability to perform under contracts with us. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to mitigate that risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our estimated reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: · the level of oil and natural gas prices; · future production levels; · capital expenditures; · operating and development costs; · the effects of regulation; · the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and · the availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of proved reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves could change significantly. For example, if the prices used in our December 31, 2010 reserve report had been $10.00 less per barrel for oil and $1.00 less per Mcf for natural gas, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of that date would have decreased by $109.8 million, from $498.4 million to $388.6 million. 30 Table Of Contents Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil, natural gas and NGL prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect as of the date of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: · the actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs; · our actual operating costs in producing oil, natural gas and NGLs; · the amount and timing of actual production; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; · the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Secondary and tertiary recovery techniques may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Approximately 39% of our 2010 production and 60% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 relied on secondary and tertiary recovery techniques, which include waterfloods and injecting gases into producing formations to enhance hydrocarbon recovery. If production response to these techniques is less than forecasted for a particular project, then the project may be uneconomic or generate less cash flow and reserves than we had estimated prior to investing the capital to employ these techniques. Risks associated with secondary and tertiary recovery techniques include the following: · lower-than-expected production; · longer response times; · higher-than-expected operating and capital costs; · shortages of equipment; and 31 Table Of Contents · lack of technical expertise. If any of these risks occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of developing, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce as much oil and natural gas as we had estimated. Furthermore, our development and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services; · composition of sour gas, including sulfur and mercaptan content; · unexpected operational events and conditions; · reductions in oil and natural gas prices; · increases in severance taxes; · adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · facility or equipment malfunctions and equipment failures or accidents, including acceleration of deterioration of our facilities and equipment due to the highly corrosive nature of sour gas; · title problems; · pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; · lost or damaged oilfield development and service tools; · unusual or unexpected geological formations and pressure or irregularities in formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; · uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; · loss of leases due to incorrect payment of royalties; and · other hazards, including those associated with sour gas such as an accidental discharge of hydrogen sulfide gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. 32 Table Of Contents If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Additionally, drilling, transportation and processing of hydrocarbons bear an inherent risk of loss of containment. Potential consequences include loss of reserves, loss of production, loss of economic value associated with the affected wellbore, contamination of soil, ground water and surface water, as well as potential fines, penalties or damages associated with any of the foregoing consequences. Our expectations for future drilling activities are planned to be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. We have identified drilling, recompletion and development locations and prospects for future drilling, recompletion and development. These drilling, recompletion and development locations represent a significant part of our future drilling and enhanced recovery opportunity plans. Our ability to drill, recomplete and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of estimated proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. As such, our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our estimated reserves, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, development equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced development crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the development of new wells or a significant increase in development costs could reduce our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to our unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: · unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners; · unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or · outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing estimated proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions to our unitholders. 33 Table Of Contents Any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · the validity of our assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs, including synergies; · an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; · a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; · facts and circumstances that could give rise to significant cash and certain non-cash charges; · unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition, given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If our acquisitions do not generate the expected increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be reduced. We may experience a financial loss if Quantum Resources Management is unable to sell a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Under our services agreement, Quantum Resources Management sells our oil, natural gas and NGL production on our behalf. Quantum Resources Management’s ability to sell our production depends upon the demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs from Quantum Resources Management’s customers. In recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced overall market liquidity. If any one or more of Quantum Resources Management’s significant customers reduces the volume of oil and natural gas production it purchases and Quantum Resources Management is unable to sell those volumes to other customers, then the volume of our production that Quantum Resources Management sells on our behalf could be reduced, and we could experience a material decline in cash available for distribution. 34 Table Of Contents In addition, a failure by any of these companies, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors are large independent oil and natural gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial, technical or personnel resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions, which may negatively affect our ability to pay future distributions or execute our business plan. We may be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution or the then-current distribution rate without borrowing under our credit facility. When we borrow to pay distributions to our unitholders, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our credit facility to pay distributions to our unitholders rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions to our unitholders for an extended period of time rather than to fund capital expenditures and other activities relating to our operations, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions to our unitholders during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution to our unitholders to avoid excessive leverage. Our future debt levels may limit our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. We had $225 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We have the ability to incur debt, including under our credit facility, subject to anticipated borrowing base limitations in our credit facility. The level of our future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: 35 Table Of Contents · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · covenants contained in our credit facility and future debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and · our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions to our unitholders, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our future ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and other events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we fail to provide audited financial statements within 105 days after the end of our fiscal year end and reviewed financial statements within 45 days after the end of our interim periods, we will be in violation of our covenants. If we violate any provisions of our credit facility that are not cured or waived within the appropriate time periods provided in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility will be secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. We did not provide our audited financial statements by April 15, 2011, for which we sought and received a waiver to extend this reporting requirement by 30 days. Our credit facility is reserve-based, and thus we are permitted to borrow under the credit facility in an amount up to the borrowing base, which is primarily based on the estimated value of our oil and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. Our borrowing base is subject to redetermination on a semi-annual basis based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated natural gas, NGL and oil reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas, NGL and oil prices at such time, as adjusted for the impact of our commodity derivative contracts. In the future, we may be unable to access sufficient capital under our credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lenders to meet their funding obligations. A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination that lowers our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we could be required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not anticipate having any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our credit facility. Additionally, we anticipate that if, at the time of any distribution, our borrowings equal or exceed the maximum percentage allowed of the then-specified borrowing base, we will not be able to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter without first making the required repayments of indebtedness under our credit facility. 36 Table Of Contents Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines, natural gas processing plants and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and natural disasters, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines, natural gas processing plants and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets due to weather and adverse economic conditions have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes, and we cannot be sure the insurance coverage we do obtain will contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our business depends in part on pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and could harm our business. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline or processing facility capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and harm our business. Because we do not control the development of certain of the properties in which we own interests, but do not operate, we may not be able to achieve any production from these properties in a timely manner. As of December 31, 2010, 5.3 MMBoe of our estimated proved reserves and 1.6 MMBoe of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves, or 18% of our estimated proved reserves and 16% of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves as determined by volume and by value based on standardized measure, were attributable to properties for which we were not the operator. As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number of factors, including: · the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; 37 Table Of Contents · the operators’ expertise and financial resources; · the approval of other participants in such properties; and · the selection and application of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, or we will be required to write off the estimated proved reserves attributable thereto, any of which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations and our cash available for distribution. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could adversely impact our ability to pay distributions on the common units. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our future performance. The historical financial information included in this report is derived from our historical financial statements for periods prior to our initial public offering. Our audited historical financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, our historical financial information does not reflect what our results of operations and financial condition would have been had we been a public entity during the periods presented, or what our results of operations and financial condition will be in the future. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production and processing of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, or CO2, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of regulations under the existing Clean Air Act that require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary large sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA has published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V permitting programs, pursuant to which these permitting programs have been “tailored” to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG. Moreover, on November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution activities, which may include certain of our operations, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. 38 Table Of Contents In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation.” Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting regulated drilling activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly compliance or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste control, handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information. 39 Table Of Contents The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect the third parties on whom we rely. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will finalize these regulations or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures or to make distributions. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and natural gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. This process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas agencies. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health, with initial results of the study anticipated to be available by late 2012, and final result in 2014. In addition, for the second consecutive session, the federal Congress is considering two companion bills, known as the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act,” or “FRAC Act,” that would repeal an exemption in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids other than diesel near drinking water sources. Moreover, some states have adopted, and other states, including Texas, are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. On March 1, 2011, a bill was introduced in the Texas Senate that, if adopted, would require written disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas, or “RCT,” of specific information about the fluids, proppants and additives used in hydraulic fracturing treatment operations and, on March 11, 2011, a bill was introduced in the Texas House of Representatives that would require service companies to submit “master lists” of base fluids, additives and chemical constituents to be used in hydraulic fracturing activities in Texas, subject to certain trade secret protections, to the RCT. Adoption of legislation or any implementing regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could increase our costs of compliance with potentially applicable permitting, financial assurance, construction, monitoring, reporting and plugging and abandonment requirements, impose operational delays and make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, resulting in reduced amounts of oil and natural gas being produced. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, exploration and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements and attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Some or all of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table Of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity and incur debt. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank similar yield oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. As of April 15, 2011, the Fund owned a 51.6% limited partner interest in us, and our general partner is owned 50% by an entity controlled by Mr. Neugebauer and Mr. VanLoh, who are directors of our general partner and also managing partners of Quantum Energy Partners, and 50% by an entity controlled by Mr. Smith, our Chief Executive Officer, a director of our general partner and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Quantum Resources Management and Mr. Campbell, our President and Chief Operating Officer, a director of our general partner and President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of Quantum Resources Management. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. However, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner, including Quantum Resources Management and Quantum Energy Partners, and certain of our executive officers and directors will continue to have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in funds affiliated with Quantum Energy Partners. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between the Fund, Quantum Energy Partners and their respective affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders and us. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the Fund, Quantum Energy Partners or their respective affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of the Fund, Quantum Energy Partners and their respective affiliates (other than our general partner) have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of their respective equity holders, which may be contrary to our interests; 41 Table Of Contents · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the owners of our general partner, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; · the Fund, Quantum Energy Partners and their affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities, and are under no obligation to offer assets to us except for the obligations of the Fund and its general partner under our omnibus agreement; · many of the officers of our general partner who will provide services to us will devote time to affiliates of our general partner, including Quantum Resources Management and Quantum Energy Partners, and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests, other investments, including investment capital expenditures in other partnerships with which our general partner is or may become affiliated, and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; · our general partner has entered into a services agreement with Quantum Resources Management, pursuant to which Quantum Resources Management will operate our assets and perform other administrative services for us. Quantum Resources Management has similar arrangements with affiliates of the Fund; · after December 31, 2012, our general partner will determine which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates, including Quantum Resources Management, are reimbursable by us. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our general partner is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including Quantum Resources Management and the Fund; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” 42 Table Of Contents The Fund, Quantum Energy Partners and other affiliates of our general partner will not be limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Our partnership agreement provides that the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners and their respective affiliates are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, except for the limited obligations of the Fund described below with respect to our omnibus agreement, the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners and their respective affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. Under the terms of our omnibus agreement, the Fund is only obligated to offer us the first option to acquire 25% of each acquisition that becomes available to the Fund, so long as at least 70% of the allocated value (as determined in good faith by the Fund) is attributable to proved developed producing reserves. In addition, the terms of our omnibus agreement require the Fund to give us a preferential opportunity to bid on any oil or natural gas properties that the Fund intends to sell only if such properties are at least 70% proved developed producing reserves (as determined in good faith by the Fund). In addition to opportunities to purchase additional properties from, and to participate in future acquisition opportunities with, the Fund, the general partner of the Fund has agreed that, if it or its affiliates establish another fund to acquire oil and natural gas properties by December 31, 2012, it will cause such fund to provide us with a similar right to participate in such fund’s acquisition opportunities. These provisions of the omnibus agreement will expire December 22, 2015. The Fund and Quantum Energy Partners are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry, and have resources greater than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on the employees of Quantum Resources Management to manage our business. Quantum Resources Management will also provide substantially similar services to the Fund, and thus will not be solely focused on our business. Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on Quantum Resources Management to operate our assets. Our general partner has entered into a services agreement with Quantum Resources Management, pursuant to which Quantum Resources Management has agreed to make available to our general partner Quantum Resources Management’s personnel in a manner that will allow us to carry on our business in the same manner in which it was carried on by our Predecessor. Quantum Resources Management provides substantially similar services to the Fund, one of our affiliates. Should Quantum Energy Partners form other funds, Quantum Resources Management may enter into similar arrangements with those new funds. Because Quantum Resources Management provides services to us that are substantially similar to those provided to the Fund and, potentially, other funds, Quantum Resources Management may not have sufficient human, technical and other resources to provide those services at a level that Quantum Resources Management would be able to provide to us if it did not provide those similar services to the Fund and those other funds. The assets that the Fund owns with respect to Quantum Resources Management that provides such services had net production of approximately 13,851 Boe/d for 2010. Additionally, Quantum Resources Management may make internal decisions on how to allocate its available resources and expertise that may not always be in our best interest compared to those of the Fund or other funds. There is no requirement that Quantum Resources Management favor us over the Fund or other funds in providing its services. If the employees of Quantum Resources Management and their affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. 43 Table Of Contents We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If one or more material weaknesses persist or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Our Predecessor has been a private company with limited accounting personnel and other supervisory resources to adequately execute its accounting processes and address our internal control over financial reporting. This lack of adequate accounting resources contributed to audit adjustments to the financial statements for 2009 and 2010. In connection with our Predecessor’s audit for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, our Predecessor’s independent registered public accounting firm identified and communicated to our Predecessor and to us material weaknesses, including a material weakness related to maintaining an effective control environment in that the design and operation of its controls have not consistently resulted in effective review and supervision. Certain of these material weaknesses, including the material weakness in the control environment, also exist at the Partnership level since the same processes and controls support the Partnership. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The lack of adequate staffing levels and communication throughout the organization resulted in insufficient time spent on review and approval of certain information used to prepare our Predecessor’s and the Partnership's financial statements. In addition, we did not design and operate effective controls over the month end closing process to allow for management's review on a timely, consistent and effective basis. That combined with an IT environment that lacks segregation of duties, insufficient controls over change management processes for the related financial reporting systems, and a lack of integration of key systems all contributed to material weaknesses in the overall control environment. The lack of adequate staffing and insufficient supervision throughout the organization also resulted in the lack of design of proper policies and procedures over several control activities, as further described below, which represent individual material weaknesses at the control activity level. These material weaknesses contributed to multiple audit adjustments. The following are the individual control activity level material weaknesses: · We did not design and operate effective controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the inputs with respect to the full cost ceiling impairment test and depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations, resulting in audit adjustments in 2009 and 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls over the calculation and review of the nonperformance risk adjustment related to the valuation of derivative contracts, resulting in audit adjustments in 2009 and 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls to ensure that gas imbalance liabilities were appropriately recorded, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls over the management of suspended revenue and revenue clearing balances and outside owners’ interests accruals, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls to ensure that inventory balances were complete and accurate and movements recorded in a timely basis, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls over acquisitions to ensure all material assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses were identified and recorded, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010. · We did not design and operate effective controls to ensure that the accounting for the IPO transaction and the associated conveyance accounting had been correctly accounted for, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010 · We did not design and operate effective controls to ensure that executive and management compensation arrangements had been identified and the related expenses appropriately recorded, resulting in audit adjustments in 2010, some of which were out-of-period adjustments. In response, we have begun the process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, although we are in the early phases of our review and will not complete our review until later in 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of our review at this time. During the course of the review, we may identify additional control deficiencies, which could give rise to significant deficiencies and other material weaknesses in addition to the material weaknesses previously identified. Each of the material weaknesses described above could result in a misstatement of our accounts or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, or any measures we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the material weaknesses described above or avoid potential future material weaknesses. 44 Table Of Contents The management incentive fee we will pay to our general partner may increase in situations where there is no corresponding increase in distributions to our common unitholders. Under our partnership agreement, for each quarter for which we have paid cash distributions that equaled or exceeded the Target Distribution, our general partner will be entitled to a quarterly management incentive fee, payable in cash, equal to 0.25% of the management incentive fee base, which will be an amount equal to the sum of: · the future net revenue of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves, discounted to present value at 10% per annum and calculated based on SEC methodology, adjusted for our commodity derivative contracts; and · the fair market value of our assets, other than our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and our commodity derivative contracts, that principally produce qualifying income for federal income tax purposes, at such value as may be determined by the board of directors of our general partner and approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors. The maximum amount of the management incentive fee payable to our general partner in respect of any quarter is not dependent upon the amount of distributions to unitholders increasing beyond 115% of our minimum quarterly distribution. As a result, the management incentive fee may increase as the value of our oil and natural gas reserves and other assets increase even though distributions to unitholders may remain the same or even decrease. In addition, our general partner may have a conflict in deciding whether to reserve cash to invest in developing our oil and natural gas properties to increase the value of our assets (which would increase the management incentive fee) or deciding to make cash available for distributions to our unitholders. If our general partner converts a portion of its management incentive fee in respect of a quarter into Class B units, it will be entitled to receive pro rata distributions on those Class B units when and if we pay distributions on our common units, even if the value of our properties declines and a lower management incentive fee is owed in future quarters. From and after the end of the subordination period and subject to certain exceptions, our general partner will have the continuing right, at any time when it has received all or any portion of the quarterly management incentive fee for three consecutive calendar quarters and shall be entitled to receive all or a portion of the management incentive fee for a fourth consecutive quarter, to convert into Class B units up to 80% of the management incentive fee for the fourth quarter in lieu of receiving a cash payment for each portion of the management incentive fee. The Class B units will have the same rights, preferences and privileges of our common units and will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units, except in liquidation where distributions are made in accordance with the respective capital accounts of the units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units at the election of the holder. As a result, if the value of our properties declines in periods subsequent to the conversion, our general partner may receive higher cash distributions with respect to Class B units than it otherwise would have received in respect of the management incentive fee it converted. The Class B units issued to our general partner upon conversion of the management incentive fee will not be subject to forfeiture should the value of our assets decline in subsequent periods. 45 Table Of Contents Many of the directors and officers who have responsibility for our management have significant duties with, and will spend significant time serving, entities that compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. To maintain and increase our levels of production, we will need to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Several of the officers and directors of our general partner, who are responsible for managing our operations and acquisition activities, hold similar positions with other entities that are in the business of identifying and acquiring oil and natural gas properties. For example, our general partner is owned 50% by an entity controlled by Mr. Smith, the Chief Executive Officer and a director of our general partner and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Quantum Resources Management and Mr. Campbell, the President and Chief Operating Officer and a director of our general partner and President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of Quantum Resources Management. Mr. Smith and Mr. Campbell manage the Fund, and the Fund is also in the business of acquiring oil and natural gas properties. In addition, our general partner is owned 50% by an entity controlled by Mr. Neugebauer and Mr. VanLoh, who are directors of our general partner and also managing partners of Quantum Energy Partners. Mr. Burgher, the Chief Financial Officer of our general partner, serves on the board of a Quantum Energy Partners portfolio company. Quantum Energy Partners is in the business of investing in oil and natural gas companies with independent management, and those companies also seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Mr. Neugebauer and Mr. VanLoh are also directors of several oil and natural gas producing entities that are in the business of acquiring oil and natural gas properties. Mr. Wolf, the Chairman of the board of directors of our general partner, is also the chief executive officer and a director of the general partner of the Fund and is on the board of directors of other companies who also seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Several officers of our general partner continue to devote significant time to the other businesses, including businesses to which Quantum Resources Management provides management and administrative services. The existing positions held by these directors and officers may give rise to fiduciary duties that are in conflict with fiduciary duties they owe to us. We cannot assure our unitholders that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As officers and directors of our general partner these individuals may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present them to us. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our unitholders should be aware, see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Our right of first offer to purchase certain of the Fund’s producing properties and right to participate in acquisition opportunities with the Fund are subject to risks and uncertainty, and thus may not enhance our ability to grow our business. Under the terms of our omnibus agreement, the Fund has committed to offer us the first opportunity to purchase properties that it may offer for sale, so long as the properties consist of at least 70% proved developed producing reserves. Additionally, the Fund has committed to offer us the first option to acquire at least 25% of each acquisition available to it, so long as at least 70% of the allocated value is attributable to proved developed producing reserves. The consummation and timing of any future transactions pursuant to either such right with respect to any particular acquisition opportunity will depend upon, among other things, our ability to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such opportunities and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future transactions pursuant to these rights. Additionally, the Fund is under no obligation to accept any offer made by us to purchase properties that it may offer for sale. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to exercise these rights when they become available, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. Additionally, while the general partner of the Fund has agreed that, if it or its affiliates establish another fund to acquire oil and natural gas properties by December 22, 2012, it will cause such fund to provide us with a similar right to participate in such fund’s acquisition opportunities, the general partner of the Fund and its affiliates are under no obligation to create an additional fund, and even if an additional fund is created, our ability to consummate acquisitions in partnership with such fund will be subject to each of the risks outlined above. The contractual obligations under the omnibus agreement automatically terminate on December 22, 2015. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” 46 Table Of Contents After December 31, 2012, we will have to reimburse Quantum Resources Management for all allocable expenses it incurs on our behalf in its performance under the services agreement as opposed to paying the fixed services fee in effect until December 31, 2012. Our actual allocated expenses after December 31, 2012 may be substantially more than the administrative services fee we pay under the fixed rate currently in effect, which could materially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders at that time. Under the services agreement that our general partner has entered into, from December 22, 2010 through December 31, 2012, Quantum Resources Management will be entitled to a quarterly administrative services fee equal to 3.5% of the Adjusted EBITDA generated by us during the preceding quarter, calculated prior to the payment of the fee. For 2010, 3.5% of our Adjusted EBITDA, calculated prior to the payment of the fee, was $0.1 million. After December 31, 2012, in lieu of the quarterly administrative services fee, our general partner will reimburse Quantum Resources Management, on a quarterly basis, for the allocable expenses it incurs in its performance under the services agreement, and we will reimburse our general partner for such payments it makes to Quantum Resources Management. Our actual allocated expenses after December 31, 2012 may be substantially more than the administrative services fee we pay under the fixed rate currently in effect, which could materially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders at that time. For a detailed description of the administrative services fee, see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not eligible holders will be subject to redemption. To comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: · a citizen of the United States; · a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; · a public body, including a municipality; or · an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, will run the risk of having their common units redeemed by us at the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Affiliates of the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners, as the owners of our general partner, will have the power to appoint and remove our general partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner will be chosen by affiliates of the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 47 Table Of Contents Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Since affiliates of the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners own our general partner and, through ownership of the general partner of the Fund, own a 51.6% limited partner interest in us as of March 31, 2011, the other unitholders will not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common units (including common units held by the Fund and its affiliates) after the subordination period has ended. Assuming we do not issue any additional common units and the Fund does not transfer its common units, the Fund will have the ability to amend our partnership agreement, including our policy to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, without the approval of any other unitholder once the subordination period ends. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of the affiliates of the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners that hold our common units and our general partner relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the other unitholders. See “— Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders.” Our general partner will be required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain our long-term asset base, including expenditures to replace our oil and natural gas reserves (including non-proved reserves attributable to undeveloped leasehold acreage), whether through the development, exploitation and production of an existing leasehold or the acquisition or development of a new oil or natural gas property. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. In addition, the ability of our general partner to receive a management incentive fee is based on the amount of cash distributed to our unitholders from operating surplus, which in turn is partially dependent upon its determination of our estimated maintenance capital expenditures. If estimated maintenance capital expenditures are lower than actual maintenance capital expenditures, then our general partner may be entitled to the management incentive fee at times when cash distributions to our unitholders would not have come from operating surplus if operating surplus was reduced by actual maintenance capital expenditures. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation involving us or to any amendment to the partnership agreement; 48 Table Of Contents · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner’s board of directors or the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The public unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 ⅔% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 31, 2011, affiliates of the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners own our general partner and, through ownership of the general partner of the Fund, own a 51.6% limited partner interest in us. Our general partner’s interest in us, including its right to receive the management incentive fee, and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner, who are affiliates of both the Fund and Quantum Energy Partners, from transferring all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. Additionally, our general partner or its owners may assign the right to receive the management incentive fee and to convert such management incentive fee into Class B units to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the holders. To the extent the owners of our general partner have interests aligned with those of our unitholders to grow our business and increase our distributions, any assignment of the right to receive the management incentive fee and to convert such management incentive fee into Class B units to a third party would diminish the incentives of the owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves established by our general partner, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net income. 49 Table Of Contents We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the limited voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20% or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ limited voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity or group that owns 20% or more of any class of common units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner has a call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is the greater of (i) the highest cash price paid by either of our general partner or any of its affiliates for any common units purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those common units; and (ii) the average daily closing prices of our common units over the 20 days preceding the date three days before the date the notice is mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of April 15, 2011, the Fund owned a 51.6% limited partner interest in us including both common and subordinated units. Our subordinated units convert to common units on the earlier of two years from the date of the initial public offering or the date our general partner is removed without case. If we distribute cash from capital surplus, which is analogous to a return of capital, our minimum quarterly distribution will be reduced proportionately, and the target distribution relating to our general partner’s management incentive fee will be proportionately decreased. Our cash distributions will be characterized as coming from either operating surplus or capital surplus. Operating surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally means amounts we receive from operating sources, such as sale of our oil and natural gas production, less operating expenditures, such as production costs and taxes and any payments in respect of the management incentive fee, and less estimated average capital expenditures, which are generally amounts we estimate we will need to spend in the future to maintain our production levels over the long term. Capital surplus is defined in the glossary and generally would result from cash received from nonoperating sources such as sales of properties and issuances of debt and equity interests. Cash representing capital surplus, therefore, is analogous to a return of capital. Distributions of capital surplus are made to our unitholders and our general partner in proportion to their percentage interests in us, or 99.9% to our unitholders and 0.1% to our general partner, and will result in a decrease in our minimum quarterly distribution and a lower Target Distribution used in calculating the management incentive fee paid to our general partner, which may have the effect of increasing the likelihood that our general partner would earn the management incentive fee in future periods. 50 Table Of Contents Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make distributions to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based on our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 51 Table Of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax each year at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any similar taxes by any other state may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the Target Distribution may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the Target Distribution may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed in a prior session of Congress that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. 52 Table Of Contents If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our total net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation, depletion and IDC recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Prospective unitholders who are tax-exempt entities or non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our units. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depletion, depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. 53 Table Of Contents We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the Partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. As a result of investing in our units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future even if such unitholders do not live in those jurisdictions. Our unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially will own property and conduct business in a number of states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. 54 Table Of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 