Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business General business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our businesses and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy is unable to steadily emerge from the recession that began in 2007 or we experience worsening economic conditions, such as a so-called “double-dip” recession, our growth and profitability could be constrained. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries can affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder the U.S. economic recovery. Financial markets remain concerned about the ability of certain European countries to finance and service their debt. The default by any one of these countries on their debt payments could lead to weaker economic conditions in the United States. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors are detrimental to our business. Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities, or GSEs. Changes in any of these policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Actions by the FHLB, or the FRB, may reduce our borrowing capacity. Additionally, we may not be able to attract deposits at competitive rates. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity or result in increased funding costs. Furthermore, we invest in several asset classes, including significant investments in MSR, which may be less liquid in certain markets. Liquidity may also be adversely impacted by bank supervisory and regulatory authorities mandating changes in the composition of our balance sheet to asset classes that are less liquid. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. In addition, our access to deposits may be affected by the liquidity and/or cash flow needs of depositors. Although we have historically been able to 16replace maturing deposits and FHLB advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future and can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds and increase our funding costs if, among other things, clients move funds out of bank deposits and into alternative investments, such as the stock market, that are perceived as providing superior expected returns. Furthermore, an inability to increase our deposit base at all or at attractive rates would impede our ability to fund our continued growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to raise funds through deposits or borrowings could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. We may be required to seek additional regulatory capital through capital raising at terms that may be very dilutive to existing common stockholders. Likewise, we may need to incur additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. Any borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. Our financial results are significantly affected in a number of ways by changes in interest rates, which may make our results volatile from quarter to quarter. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, which subjects us to significant risks from changes in interest rates and can impact our net income and the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our operating results depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the amount of interest income we earn and the amount of interest expense we incur. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the FRB. A strengthening U.S. economy would be expected to cause the FRB to increase short-term interest rates, which would increase our borrowing costs and may reduce our profit margins. A sustained low interest rate environment could cause many of our loans subject to adjustable rates to reprice downward to lower interest rates, which would decrease our loan yields and reduce our profit margins. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on our mortgage loan origination revenues. Historically, there has been an inverse correlation between the demand for mortgage loans and interest rates. Mortgage origination volume and revenues usually decline during periods of rising or high interest rates and increase during periods of declining or low interest rates. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of a significant percentage of the assets on our balance sheet. Furthermore, our MSR are valued based on a number of factors, including assumptions about borrower repayment rates, which are heavily influenced by prevailing interest rates. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSR can decrease, which, in turn, may reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. We recorded a $63.5 million impairment charge related to MSR for the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, mortgage loans held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist and other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations are carried at fair value. The value of these assets may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. We may not correctly or adequately hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments, we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these assets or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. Even though originating mortgage loans, which benefit from declining rates, and servicing mortgage loans, which benefit from rising rates, can act as a “natural hedge” to soften the overall impact of changes in rates on our consolidated financial results, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSR is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSR relating to the new loans would generally accrue over time. We enter into forward starting swaps as a hedging strategy related to our expected future issuances of debt. This hedging strategy allows us to fix the interest rate margin between our interest earning assets and our interest bearing liabilities. A continued prolonged period of lower interest rates could affect the duration of our interest earning assets and adversely impact our operations in future periods.We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan and lease losses and to charge-off additional loans and leases in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate market in the United States since late 2007 has been characterized by high delinquency rates and price deterioration. Despite historically low interest rates and signs of a recovering real estate market, higher credit standards, weak employment, slow economic growth and an overall de-leveraging in the residential and commercial sectors have perpetuated these trends. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL), which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease loss expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s judgment with respect to: •continuing evaluation of specific credit risks;•loan loss experience; •current loan and lease portfolio quality; •present economic, political and regulatory conditions; •industry concentrations; and •other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and 17judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any adjustments made to the ALLL resulting from regulatory review would still result in an adjustment to the ALLL in accordance with GAAP. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses, which would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Mortgage loan modification and refinancing programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and our returns on, residential mortgage-backed securities and on MSR. The U.S. Government, through the FRB, Federal Housing Administration (FHA), and the FDIC, has initiated a number of loss mitigation programs designed to afford relief to homeowners facing foreclosure and to assist borrowers whose home value is less than the principal on their mortgage, including the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, the Hope for Homeowners Program (H4H) Program, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA, insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures, and the Home Affordable Refinancing Program (HARP), which makes it easier for borrowers with little or no equity to refinance at lower interest rates. These loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws, which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our portfolio of mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and on the value of our MSR. Our MSR is valued based on a number of factors, including assumptions about borrower repayment rates and costs of servicing. If the interest rate on a mortgage is adjusted, or if a borrower is permitted to refinance at a lower rate, or the costs of servicing or costs of foreclosures increase, the value of our MSR with respect to that mortgage can decrease, which, in turn, may reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. In addition, increases in servicing costs from changes to our foreclosure and other servicing practices, including resulting from the consent orders, adversely affects the fair value of our MSR. Our gain on sale of loans could decrease in future periods if refinancing activity declines. In recent periods we have seen elevated residential mortgage refinancing activity primarily due to government programs such as HAMP and HARP. In addition as a result of qualitative easing and other governmental policies, mortgage rates, as indicated by the Base Mortgage Rate, have declined in recent quarters. We believe this decline will extend refinancing activity into future periods, which could result in a continuation of elevated mortgage refinancing activity. In addition, we have experienced heightened demand for mortgage loans by investors in the secondary market as a result of the favorable risk adjusted yield on mortgage assets relative to other investments. This expanded secondary market activity has resulted in attractive resale opportunities which have resulted in an increase in our gain on sale of loans during the year ended December 31, 2012. We do not believe that this low interest rate environment coupled with the continued elevated activity in the secondary market will continue indefinitely. Presently the FRB has stated that it intends to maintain its current policies in the near term. However, in a rising interest rate environment, we would expect that refinancing volumes would decline, which could cause our originations of mortgage loans held for sale to decrease. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio exposes us to risks that may be greater than the risks related to our other mortgage loans and a high percentage of these loans are secured by properties located in Florida. At December 31, 2012, our commercial real estate loans, net of discounts, were $3.4 billion, or approximately 27% of our total loan portfolio, net of allowances. Commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than residential mortgage loans or home equity loans. The repayment of these loans is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial projects. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Furthermore, the repayment of commercial mortgage loans is generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan or engage in other potentially expensive work-out techniques. Any significant failure to pay on time by our borrowers would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. As a result of our 2010 acquisition of the banking operations of Bank of Florida in an FDIC-assisted transaction, we have increased our exposure to risks related to economic conditions in Florida. Unlike our residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is more geographically diverse, approximately 20% of our commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2012, were secured by properties located in Florida. Florida has experienced a deeper recession and more dramatic economic slowdown than other states and the decline in real estate values in Florida has been significantly higher than the national average. Our concentration of commercial loans in this state subjects us to risk that a downturn in the local economy could result in increases in delinquencies and foreclosures or losses on these loans. In addition, the occurrence of natural disasters in Florida, such as hurricanes, or man-made disasters, such as the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, could result in a decline in the value or destruction of our mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies or foreclosures. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may become subject to additional risks as a result of our recent acquisition of Business Property Lending from GECC. Our recent acquisition of Business Property Lending from GECC could expose us to commercial lending in new markets where we have little commercial experience, which could result in losses that would affect our financial results. Prior to our acquisition of Business Property Lending, most of the commercial loans we have originated have been in the state of Florida. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired a nationwide portfolio of commercial loans, along with a platform to generate such loans. If we do not maintain strong underwriting standards as we have in the past, we may suffer losses if these loans fail to perform. 18Conditions in the real estate market and higher than normal delinquency and default rates could adversely affect our business. The origination and servicing of residential mortgages is a significant component of our business and our earnings have been and may continue to be adversely affected by weak real estate markets and historically high delinquency and default rates. If the frequency and severity of our loan delinquencies and default rates increase, we could experience losses on loans held for investment and on newly originated or purchased loans that we hold for sale. We may need to further increase our reserves for foreclosures if foreclosure rates increase. Continued or worsening conditions in the real estate market and higher than normal deliquency and default rates on loans have other adverse consequences for our mortgage banking business, including:•cash flows and capital resources are reduced, as we are required to make cash advances to meet contractual obligations to investors, process foreclosures, maintain, repair and market foreclosed properties; •mortgage service fee revenues decline because we recognize these revenues only upon collection; •net interest income may decline and interest expense may increase due to lower average cash and capital balances and higher capital funding requirements; •mortgage and loan servicing costs rise; •an inability to sell our MSR in the capital markets due to reduced liquidity; •amortization and impairment charges on our MSR increase; and •realized and unrealized losses on and declines in the liquidity of securities held in our investment portfolio that are collateralized by mortgage obligationsWe may be required to repurchase mortgage loans with identified defects, indemnify the investor or guarantor, or reimburse the investor for credit loss incurred on the loan in the event of a material breach of representations or warranties. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties, from our sales of loans we originate and servicing of loans originated by other parties. We conduct these activities under contractual provisions that include various representations and warranties which typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan and similar matters. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans with identified defects, indemnify the investor or guarantor, or reimburse the investor for credit loss incurred on the loan in the event of a material breach of such contractual representations or warranties. We experienced increased levels of repurchase demands beginning in 2010, which has led to material increases in our loan repurchase reserves and we may need to increase such reserves in the future, which would adversely affect net income. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 our loan repurchase reserve for loans that we sold or securitized was $27.0 million, $32.0 million and $26.8 million, respectively, representing a 16% decrease during 2012 and a 19% increase during 2011. In addition, we also service residential mortgage loans where a GSE is the owner of the underlying mortgage loan asset. Prior to late 2009, we had not historically experienced a significant amount of repurchases related to the servicing of mortgage loans as we were indemnified by the seller of the servicing rights but due to the failures of several of our counterparties, we have since experienced losses related to the repurchase of loans from GSEs and subsequent disposal or payment demands from the GSEs. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 our reserve for servicing repurchase losses was $26.0 million, $30.4 million and $30.0 million, respectively, representing a 14% decrease during 2012 and a 1% increase during 2011. Recent foreclosure-related litigation may also present risks to us. A recent court decision in the Southern District of New York, related to residential mortgage-backed security, or RMBS, repurchase claims, could result in increased litigation. The plaintiff in the case sought to establish breaches of representations and warranties in large RMBS loan pools using small loan samples rather than proving a breach of every loan in the loan pool in order to exercise their repurchase right. The court ruled in favor of the plaintiff and concluded that relying on a small sample of loans is permissible, which indicates that loan pool repurchase claims may become more plaintiff-friendly and easier to prove and could increase our exposure to repurchase-related claims. If future repurchase demands remain at heightened levels or increase further or the severity of the repurchase requests increases, or our success at appealing repurchase or other requests differs from past experience, we may need to further increase our loan repurchase reserves, and increased repurchase obligations could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Loans Subject to Representations and Warranties.” Our concentration of mass-affluent clients and so-called “jumbo” mortgages in our residential mortgage portfolio makes us particularly vulnerable to a downturn in high-end real estate values and economic factors disproportionately affecting affluent consumers of financial services. The Federal Housing Administration, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will only purchase or guarantee so-called “conforming” loans, which may not exceed certain principal amount thresholds. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 48% of our residential mortgage loans held for investment was comprised of so-called “jumbo” loans based on the current threshold of $417,000 in most states, and 91% of the carrying value of our securities portfolio was comprised of residential nonagency investment securities, substantially all of which are backed by jumbo loans. Jumbo loans have principal balances exceeding the thresholds of the agencies described above, and tend to be less liquid than conforming loans, which may make it more difficult for us to rapidly rebalance our portfolio and risk profile than is the case for financial institutions with higher concentrations of conforming loan assets. Due to macroeconomic conditions, jumbo mortgage loans have, in recent periods, experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than conforming mortgage loans. In such event, liquidity in the capital markets for such assets could be diminished and we could be faced with increased losses and an inability to dispose of such assets. 19Hedging strategies that we use to manage our mortgage pipeline may be ineffective to mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates. We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge a portion of our mortgage banking interest rate risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Our mortgage pipeline consists of our commitments to purchase mortgage loans, or interest rate locks, and funded mortgage loans that will be sold in the secondary market. The risk associated with the mortgage pipeline is that interest rates will fluctuate between the time we commit to purchase a loan at a pre-determined price, or the client locks in the interest rate on a loan, and the time we sell or commit to sell the mortgage loan. Generally speaking, if interest rates increase, the value of an unhedged mortgage pipeline decreases, and gain on sale margins are adversely impacted. Typically, we hedge the risk of overall changes in fair value of loans held for sale by either entering into forward loan sale agreements, selling forward Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac MBS or using other derivative instruments to hedge loan commitments and to create fair value hedges against the funded loan portfolios. We generally do not hedge all of the interest rate risk on our mortgage portfolio and have not historically hedged the risk of changes in the fair value of our MSR resulting from changes in interest rates. To the extent we fail to appropriately reduce our exposure to interest rate changes, our financial results may be adversely affected. We could recognize realized and unrealized losses on securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if economic and market conditions deteriorate. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $1.8 billion, of which approximately 91% was comprised of residential nonagency investment securities. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of these factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience higher delinquencies on our equipment leases and reductions in the resale value of leased equipment. The realization of equipment values (i.e., residual values) during the life and at the end of the term of a lease is an important element of our commercial finance business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual or excessive wear-and-tear on the equipment, recession or other adverse economic conditions, or other factors, would adversely affect the current or the residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values are dependent on the manufacturer’s or vendor’s warranties, reputation and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may not realize our estimated residual values for equipment. If we are unable to realize the expected value of a substantial portion of the equipment under lease, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Tygris, we acquired a portfolio of equipment leases with a fair value of $538.1 million, or 67% of the original book value of the leases at the date of acquisition. We acquired Tygris through a stock-for-stock merger with one of our subsidiaries in which 29,913,030 shares of our common stock were issued to the former Tygris stockholders. Of such shares, 9,470,010, along with $50 million in cash, were placed in an escrow account at closing to offset potential losses realized in connection with the original book value of the Tygris’ lease and loan portfolio over a five-year period following the closing, and to satisfy any indemnification claims that we may have under the acquisition agreement. Although we purchased these leases at a discount, they were not subjected to our credit standards. The non-impaired leases we acquired may become impaired and the impaired leases may suffer further deterioration in value, resulting in additional charge-offs to this portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, total net charge-offs incurred with respect to the original book value of the portfolio since the closing of the acquisition have totaled $81.7 million. Because of the significant discounts recognized with respect to the population, including the expected credit discounts, EverBank has not incurred additional losses on this portfolio in excess of those expected at the time of the acquisition. As of December 31, 2012, the remaining carrying value of the acquired portfolio was $75.2 million. We currently do not expect to receive any funds from escrow related to the acquired loans and leases based on our current expectations of cash flows. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our lease portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income. We are not protected for all losses and any charge-off or related losses that we experience will negatively impact our results of operations. We may become subject to a number of risks if we elect to pursue acquisitions and may not be able to acquire and integrate acquisition targets successfully if we choose to do so. As we have done in the past, we may pursue acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We may consider acquisitions of loans or securities portfolios, lending or leasing firms, commercial and small business lenders, residential lenders, direct banks, banks or bank branches, wealth and investment management firms, securities brokerage firms, specialty finance or other financial services-related companies. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition targets may be significant. Additionally, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. Such regulatory approval may be denied or, if granted, could be subject to conditions that materially affect the terms of the acquisition or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the acquisition. We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on terms and conditions we consider to be acceptable. Even if suitable candidates are identified and we succeed in consummating these transactions, acquisitions involve risks that may adversely affect our market value and profitability. These risks include, among other things: credit risk associated with acquired loans and investments; retaining, attracting and integrating personnel; loss of clients; reputational risks; difficulties in integrating or operating acquired businesses or assets; and potential disruption of our ongoing business operations and diversion of management’s attention. Through our 20acquisitions we may also assume unknown or undisclosed liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. While in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, adequate due diligence and indemnification provisions, we cannot be certain that the due diligence we have conducted is adequate or that the indemnification provisions and other risk mitigants we put in place will be sufficient. Certain of our stockholders have director nomination rights through which they may influence the actions taken by us, and their interests may not align with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. Pursuant to an agreement between us and Arena Capital Investment Fund, L.P., or Arena, and Lovett Miller Venture Fund II, Limited Partnership and Lovett Miller Venture Fund III, Limited Partnership, or together, Lovett Miller, Arena has the right to designate a representative to be included in management’s slate of nominees recommended to our stockholders for election as a member of our Board of Directors and each of Arena and Lovett Miller have the right to appoint an observer who is permitted to attend meetings of our Board of Directors. In addition, pursuant to an agreement between us and Sageview Partners L.P., (Sageview), Sageview has the right to designate a representative to be included in management’s slate of nominees recommended to stockholders of the Company for election as a member of our Board of Directors and has the right to appoint an observer who is permitted to attend meetings of our Board of Directors. These director nomination rights and observer rights will generally survive for each of Arena, Lovett Miller and Sageview, respectively, so long as such stockholder continues to own a specified percentage of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2012, Arena held 4,442,715 shares of our common stock, or 3.67%, Lovett Miller owns 842,546 shares of our common stock, or 0.70%, and Sageview owns 12,912,230 shares of our common stock, or 10.67%. As a result of their significant holdings of our common stock, and, in the case of Arena and Sageview, their rights to designate members of our Board of Directors, these stockholders are expected to be able to continue to exert significant influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our other stockholders’ best interests. We may issue additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock, a new series of preferred stock or debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have issued one series of preferred stock, the Series A Preferred Stock. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, which may include senior or subordinated notes, classes of preferred shares and/or common shares. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Preferred shares and debt, if issued, have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend or interest payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Future issuances and sales of parity preferred stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales could occur, may also cause prevailing market prices for the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock to decline and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at times and prices favorable to us. Our ability to rely on brokered deposits as a part of our funding strategy may be limited. Deposits raised by EverBank continue to be a key part of our funding strategy. Our ability to maintain our current level of deposits or grow our deposit base could be affected by regulatory restrictions, including the possible imposition of prior approval requirements or restrictions on deposit growth through brokered channels, or restrictions on our rates offered. In addition, as a supervisory matter, reliance on brokered deposits as a significant source of funding is discouraged. As a result, in order to grow our deposit base, we will need to expand our non-brokered channels for deposit generation, including through new marketing and advertising efforts, which may require significant time, capital and effort to implement. Further, we are likely to face significant competition for deposits from other banking organizations that are also seeking stable deposits to support their funding needs. If EverBank is unable to develop new channels of deposit origination, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We are exposed to risks associated with our Internet-based systems and online commerce security, including “hacking” and “identity theft.” We operate primarily as an online bank with a small number of financial center locations and, as such, we conduct a substantial portion of our business over the Internet. We rely heavily upon data processing, including loan servicing and deposit processing, software, communications and information systems from a number of third parties to conduct our business. Third party, or internal, systems and networks may fail to operate properly or become disabled due to deliberate attacks or unintentional events. Our operations are vulnerable to disruptions from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, spam attacks, denial of service attacks, unauthorized access and other unforeseen events. Undiscovered data corruption could render our client information inaccurate. These events may obstruct our ability to provide services and process transactions. While we are in compliance with all applicable privacy and data security laws, an incident could put our client confidential information at risk. Although we have not experienced a cyber incident which has been successful in compromising our data or systems, we can never be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. We monitor and modify, as necessary, our protective measures in response to the perpetual evolution of cyber threats. A breach in the security of any of our information systems, or other cyber incident, could have an adverse impact on, among other things, our revenue, ability to attract and maintain clients and business reputation. In addition, as a result of any breach, we could incur higher costs to conduct our business, to increase protection, or related to remediation. Furthermore our clients could blame us and terminate their account with us for a cyber incident which occurred on their own system or with that of an unrelated third party. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Our business may be impaired if a third party infringes on our intellectual property rights. Our business depends heavily upon intellectual property that we have developed or will develop in the future. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. In the past, we have had to engage in enforcement actions to protect our domain names from theft, including administrative proceedings. We may in the future be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property theft on the Internet is relatively widespread, and individuals 21anywhere in the world can purchase infringing domains or use our service marks on their pay-per-click sites to draw clients for competitors while exploiting our service marks. To the extent that we are unable to rapidly locate and stop an infringement, our intellectual property assets may become devalued and our brand may be tarnished. Third parties may also challenge, invalidate or circumvent our intellectual property rights and protections, registrations and licenses. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, and the outcome of an action could negatively impact our business, brand and profitability. We may become involved in intellectual property or other disputes that could harm our business. Third parties may assert claims against us, asserting that our marks, services, associated content in any medium, or software applications infringe on their intellectual property rights. The laws and regulations governing intellectual property rights are continually evolving and subject to differing interpretations. Trademark owners often engage in litigation in state or federal courts or oppositions in the United States Patent and Trademark Office as a strategy to broaden the scope of their trademark rights. If any infringement claim is successful against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages or we may need to seek to obtain a license of the other party’s intellectual property rights. We also could lose the expected future benefit of our marketing and advertising spending. Moreover, we may be prohibited from providing our services or using content that incorporates the challenged intellectual property. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, custody, counterparty or other relationships. At various times, we may have significant exposure to a relatively small group of counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Losses suffered through such increased credit risk exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face increased risks with respect to our WorldCurrency® and other market-based deposit products. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding market-based deposits of $1.2 billion, representing approximately 9% of our total deposits, the significant majority of which are WorldCurrency® deposits. Many of our WorldCurrency® depositors have chosen that family of products in order to diversify their portfolios with respect to foreign currencies. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, political and economic disruptions in foreign markets or significant changes in commodity prices or securities indices could significantly reduce the demand for our WorldCurrency® and other market-based products as well as a devaluation of these deposit balances, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, although we routinely use derivatives to offset changes to our deposit obligations due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, commodity prices or securities indices to which these products are linked, these derivatives may not be effective. To the extent that these derivatives do not offset changes to our deposit obligations, our financial results may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include Internet banks and national, regional and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, mortgage companies, other finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can (unless laws are changed) merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly more physical branch locations than we do, which may be an important factor to potential clients. Because we offer our services over the Internet, we compete nationally for clients against financial institutions ranging from small community banks to the largest international financial institutions. Many of our competitors continue to have access to greater financial resources than we have, which allows them to invest in technological improvements. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our historical growth rate and performance may not be indicative of our future growth or financial results. Our historical growth must be viewed in the context of the recent opportunities available to us as a result of the confluence of our access to capital at a time when market dislocations of historical proportions resulted in unprecedented asset acquisition opportunities. When evaluating our historical growth and prospects for future growth, it is also important to consider that while our business philosophy has remained relatively constant over time, our mix of business, distribution channels and areas of focus have changed frequently and dramatically over the last several years. Historically, we have entered and exited lines of business to adapt to changing market conditions and perceived opportunities, and may continue to do so in future periods. In recent fiscal periods, we have completed several significant transactions, including the acquisitions of MetLife Bank’s warehouse finance business and Business Property Lending from GECC in 2012, Tygris and Bank of Florida in 2010, the acquisition of a number of residential mortgage loan and securities portfolios in 2008 and 2009 and the divestiture of our reverse mortgage operations in 2008. These transactions, along with equity capital infusions, have significantly expanded our asset and capital base, product mix and distribution channels. We also benefited from significant purchase price discounts from certain of these transactions, which are highly accretive to our earnings and which may not be available in the future. Over the longer-term, we expect margins on loans to revert to longer-term historical levels. We have historically generated a significant amount of fee income through the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans. Fundamental changes in bank regulations and the mortgage industry, weak economic conditions and the historically low interest rate environment that has characterized the last several fiscal quarters make it difficult to predict our future results or draw meaningful comparisons between our historical results and our results in future fiscal periods. We materially increased our investments in residential MSR from 2008 22through the first quarter of 2010. During that time, we also significantly increased our investments in nonagency residential collateralized mortgage obligation securities (CMOs). Due to concentration limits we adopted pursuant to new regulatory constraints and possible future regulatory guidance, our concentration in such asset classes has been reduced. We may not be able to achieve similar performance from alternative asset classes in the future. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or grow our business at all. Because of the ongoing uncertainty in the general economy and with respect to the effectiveness of recent governmental intervention in the credit markets and mortgage lending industry, as well as increased delinquencies, it will be difficult for us to replicate our historical earnings growth as we continue to expand. We have benefited from the ongoing low interest rate environment, which has provided us with high net interest margins which we use to grow our business. Higher rates would compress our margins and may impact our ability to grow. Consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. We believe our management team’s depth and breadth of experience in the banking industry is integral to executing our business plan. We also will need to continue to attract, motivate and retain other key personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or other key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by loan applicants and third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation provided by third parties. If any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. We may be exposed to unrecoverable losses on the loans acquired in the Bank of Florida acquisition, despite the loss sharing agreements we have with the FDIC. Although we acquired the loan assets of Bank of Florida at a substantial discount and we have entered into loss sharing agreements which provide that the FDIC will bear 80% of losses on such assets in excess of $385.6 million, we are not protected from all such losses. The FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for such loan losses if the loss sharing agreements are not managed in accordance with their terms. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any losses that we experience after the terms of the loss sharing agreements have ended will not be recoverable from the FDIC, which would negatively impact our net income. The acquisition of assets and liabilities of financial institutions in FDIC-sponsored or assisted transactions involves risks similar to those faced in unassisted acquisitions, even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks (e.g., entering into loss sharing arrangements). However, because such acquisitions are structured in a manner that does not allow the time normally associated with evaluating and preparing for the integration of an acquired institution, we face the additional risk that the anticipated benefits of such an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or within the time period expected. Any of these factors, among others, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Bank of Florida acquisition. Certain provisions of the loss sharing agreements entered into with the FDIC in connection with the Bank of Florida acquisition may have anti-takeover effects and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions our Board of Directors believes would be in the best interests of stockholders. The FDIC’s agreement to bear 80% of qualifying losses in excess of $385.6 million on single family residential loans for ten years and all other loans for five years is a significant advantage for us and a feature of the Bank of Florida acquisition without which we would not have entered into the transaction. Our agreement with the FDIC requires that we receive FDIC consent, which may be withheld by the FDIC in its sole discretion, prior to us or our stockholders engaging in certain transactions. If any such transaction is completed without prior FDIC consent, the FDIC would have the right to discontinue the loss sharing arrangement. Among other things, prior FDIC consent is required for (1) a merger or consolidation of us or EverBank with or into another company if our stockholders will own less than 66.66% of the combined company, (2) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of EverBank and (3) a sale of shares by a stockholder, or a group of related stockholders, that will effect a change in control of us, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act (generally, the acquisition of between 10% and 25% of our voting securities where the presumption of control is not rebutted, or the acquisition by any person, acting directly or indirectly or through or in concert with one or more persons, of more than 25% of our voting securities). Although our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains a provision that, with reference to the Change in Bank Control Act, restricts any person from acquiring control of us, or more than 9.9% of our voting securities, without the prior approval of our Board of Directors, such an acquisition by stockholders could occur beyond our control. If we or any stockholder desired to enter into any such transaction, the FDIC may not grant its consent in a timely manner, without conditions, or at all. If one of these transactions were to occur without prior FDIC consent and the FDIC withdrew its loss share protection, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and if we decide to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock could be less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Securities Act. We are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure about our executive compensation and omission of compensation discussion and analysis, and an exemption 23from the requirement of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. In addition, we will not be subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the additional level of review of our internal control over financial reporting as may occur when outside auditors attest as to our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. Further, we are eligible to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies and we intend to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. To the extent we choose to do so, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances. If we take advantage of any of these exemptions, we do not know if some investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result. The result may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.Regulatory and Legal Risks We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect clients, depositors, the DIF and the overall financial system, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that EverBank can pay to us, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles, among other things. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. We are currently facing increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and, to the extent that we participate in any programs established or to be established by the U.S. Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies, there will be additional and changing requirements and conditions imposed on us. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Further, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure is inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. We and EverBank have entered into a consent order with the OTS, and failure to comply with the requirements of the consent order could have a negative impact on us and/or EverBank. On April 13, 2011, we and EverBank each entered into a consent order with the OTS with respect to EverBank’s mortgage foreclosure practices and our oversight of those practices. The consent orders require, among other things, that we establish a new compliance program for our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations and that we ensure that we have dedicated resources for communicating with borrowers, policies and procedures for outsourcing foreclosure or related functions and management information systems that ensure timely delivery of complete and accurate information. We are also required to retain an independent firm to conduct a review of residential foreclosure actions that were pending from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 in order to determine whether any borrowers sustained financial injury as a result of any errors, misrepresentations or deficiencies and to provide remediation as appropriate. We are working to fulfill the requirements of the consent orders. In response to the consent orders, we have established an oversight committee to monitor the implementation of the actions required by the consent orders. Furthermore, we have enhanced and updated several policies, procedures, processes and controls to help ensure the mitigation of the findings of the consent orders, and submitted them to the FRB and the OCC (the applicable successors to the OTS) for review. In addition, we have enhanced our third-party vendor management system and our compliance program, hired additional personnel and retained an independent firm to conduct foreclosure reviews. In January 2013, thirteen mortgage servicing companies that were subject to similar enforcement actions reached an agreement in principle with the OCC and the FRB to terminate the independent foreclosure review requirements of the enforcement actions. As a result of this agreement, the participating servicers would cease their respective independent foreclosure reviews and instead make payments to borrowers within a framework established in the settlement agreement. For mortgage servicing companies like us and EverBank that did not enter into the settlement, the independent foreclosure review process will continue. We may be subject to civil monetary penalties with respect to the consent order, but the federal banking agencies have not indicated what the amount of any such penalties would be.Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of a settlement agreement among the U.S. Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 50 state attorneys general, and certain major mortgage servicers.The OTS, the OCC and other government agencies, including state attorneys general and the U.S. Department of Justice, investigated various mortgage related practices of certain servicers, some of which practices were also the subject of the horizontal review. In March 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and 50 state attorneys general entered into separate consent judgments with five major mortgage servicers with respect to these matters. In total, the five mortgage servicers agreed to $25 billion in borrower restitution assistance and refinancing. Monetary sanctions imposed by the federal banking agencies as a consequence of the horizontal review are being held in abeyance, subject to provision of borrower assistance and remediation under the consent judgments. Certain other institutions subject to the consent decrees with the banking regulators announced in April 2011 have been contacted by the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys general regarding a settlement. If an investigation of EverBank were to occur, it could result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies (including requiring default servicing or other process changes), other enforcement actions or additional litigation, and could result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations and additional litigation. Any other requirements or remedies or penalties that may be imposed on us as a result of the horizontal review or any other investigation or action related to mortgage origination or servicing may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. We anticipate that costs associated with foreclosures will remain high and may adversely affect us.We expect that mortgage-related assessments and waivers, costs, including compensatory fees assessed by the GSEs, and other costs associated with foreclosures will remain elevated as additional loans are delayed in the foreclosure process. This will likely continue to increase noninterest expenses, including increasing default servicing costs and legal expenses. In addition, changes to our processes and 24policies, including those required under the consent orders with federal bank regulators, are likely to result in further increases in our default servicing costs over the longer term. Delays in foreclosure sales may result in additional costs associated with the maintenance of properties or possible home price declines, result in a greater number of nonperforming loans and increased servicing advances and may adversely affect the collectability of such advances and the value of our MSR asset and real estate owned properties. In addition, the valuation of certain of our agency residential MBS could be negatively affected under certain scenarios due to changes in the timing of cash flows. Governmental and other actions relating to recording mortgages in the name of Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS) may have adverse consequences on us. Mortgage notes, assignments or other documents are often required to be maintained and are often necessary to enforce mortgages loans. There has been significant public commentary regarding the industry practice of recording mortgages in the name of MERS, as nominee on behalf of the note holder, and whether securitization trusts own the loans purported to be conveyed to them and have valid liens securing those loans. We currently use the MERS system for a substantial portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originate, including loans that have been sold to investors. A component of the consent orders described above requires significant changes in the manner in which we service loans identifying MERS as the mortgagee. Additionally, certain local and state governments have commenced legal actions against MERS and certain MERS members, questioning the validity of the MERS model. Other challenges have also been made to the process for transferring mortgage loans to securitization trusts, asserting that having a mortgagee of record that is different than the holder of the mortgage note could ‘break the chain of title’ and cloud the ownership of the loan. If certain required documents are missing or defective, or if the use of MERS is found not to be valid, we could be obligated to cure certain defects or in some circumstances be subject to additional costs and expenses in servicing mortgages. Our use of MERS as nominee for mortgages may also create reputational and other risks for us. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision and possible enforcement actions. We and EverBank are subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation that affect virtually all aspects of our operations, and a significant amount of discretion is vested in the various regulatory authorities. This supervision and regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors and the DIF administered by the FDIC, and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders. This regulation and supervision affects most aspects of our business, including lending practices, capital structure, dividend policy, and growth. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major regulatory, supervisory, and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:•changes in the thrift supervisory structure; •changes to regulatory capital requirements; •creation of new governmental agencies with authority over our operations including the CFPB; •limitation on federal preemption; and •changes to mortgage loan origination and risk retention practices. For a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Supervision and Regulation.”Other changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or supervisory guidance, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, may affect us in substantial ways that we cannot predict. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies, or guidance could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, including civil money penalties or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation.In addition, in August 2012 the CFPB proposed new rules that would require servicers to comply with new standards and practices with regard to: error correction; information disclosure; force-placement of insurance; information management policies and procedures; requiring information about mortgage loss mitigation options be provided to delinquent borrowers; providing delinquent borrowers access to servicer personnel with continuity of contact about the borrower’s mortgage loan account; and evaluating borrowers’ applications for available loss mitigation options. These rules also address initial rate adjustment notices for adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), periodic statements for residential mortgage loans, and prompt crediting of mortgage payments and response to requests for payoff amounts. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel III capital standards as implemented by the pending new capital rules is uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the U.S. banking agencies approved three joint notices of proposed rulemaking that, taken together, will both implement Basel III’s capital framework for U.S. banking institutions and substantially revise the agencies’ Basel I-based general risk-based capital guidelines to make them more risk sensitive. These proposed rules would limit our ability to include certain assets, including MSR, in our calculation of our regulatory capital ratios. MSR currently comprise a significant portion of our regulatory capital. At December 31, 2012, our net MSR totaled $375.9 million. For a more detailed description of Basel III and these proposed rules, see “Regulation and Supervision.” In the event these capital guidelines would limit our ability to include certain assets in our regulatory capital, we may be required to raise additional capital at less attractive terms. Our operating results and return on equity could be affected by such changes to our capital requirements. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress tests conducted by us may adversely affect our ability to retain clients or compete for new business opportunities. According to final rules from the FRB and OCC, beginning with data as of September 30, 2013, we and EverBank will be required to publish a summary of the results of annual company-run stress tests by June of the following year. This process will begin in 2013 and will repeat in each subsequent year. Published summary results will be required to include certain measures that evaluate our ability to absorb losses in severely adverse economic and financial conditions. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our clients’ potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the published summary of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain 25clients or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain clients or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to us or our current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders.We are highly dependent upon programs administered by government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, to generate liquidity in connection with our conforming mortgage loans. Any changes in existing U.S. government or government-sponsored mortgage programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues through securities issuances guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, or GNMA, and through mortgage loan sales to GSEs such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (as well as to other institutional investors), depends to a significant degree on programs administered by those entities. The GSEs play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with them. Many of the loans that we originate are conforming loans that qualify under existing standards for sale to the GSEs or for guarantee by GNMA. We also derive other material financial benefits from these relationships, including the assumption of credit risk by these GSEs on all loans sold to them that are pooled into securities, in exchange for our payment of guaranty fees, and the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of these GSEs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Because nearly all other non-governmental participants providing liquidity in the secondary mortgage market left that market during the mortgage financial crisis, the GSEs have been the only significant purchasers of residential mortgage loans. It remains unclear when private investors may begin to re-enter the market in a meaningful way. As described above, GSEs (which are in conservatorship, with heavy capital support from the U.S. government, and subject to serious speculation about their future structure, if any) may not be able to provide the substantial liquidity upon which our residential mortgage loan business relies. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate or increase our risk of liability with respect to certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans, and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending, servicing and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business, and ultimately may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make.Legislative action regarding foreclosures or bankruptcy laws may negatively impact our business. Recent laws delay the initiation or completion of foreclosure proceedings on specified types of residential mortgage loans (some for a limited period of time), or otherwise limit the ability of residential loan servicers to take actions that may be essential to preserve the value of the mortgage loans underlying the MSR. Any such limitations are likely to cause delayed or reduced collections from mortgagors and generally increased servicing costs. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms will in some instances require us to advance principal, interest, tax and insurance payments, which is likely to negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential and commercial properties and become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Anti-takeover provisions could adversely affect our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws:•authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt; •limit the ability of a person to own, control or have the power to vote more than 9.9% of our voting securities, in order to prevent any potential termination of protection under the loss sharing agreements we have with the FDIC in connection with the Bank of Florida acquisition; •establish a classified board of directors, with directors of each class serving a three-year term; 26•require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote; •provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; •limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and •require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws.In addition, there are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of savings and loan holding companies and federal savings associations. Any company that acquires control of a savings association becomes a “savings and loan holding company” subject to registration, examination and regulation by the FRB. “Control,” as defined under federal banking regulations, includes ownership or control of shares, or holding irrevocable proxies (or a combination thereof), representing 25% or more of any class of voting stock, control in any manner of the election of a majority of the institution’s directors, or a determination by the FRB that the acquirer has the power to direct, or directly or indirectly to exercise a controlling influence over, the management or policies of the institution. Further, an acquisition of 10% or more of our common stock creates a rebuttable presumption of “control” under federal banking regulations. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire EverBank or us even if such an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.