Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, in evaluating our company and our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on payments from government Medicare and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid programs for a significant amount of our revenue. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes that result in reimbursement reductions. Our payer mix is concentrated with Medicare patients due to the high proportion of cancer patients over the age of 65. We estimate that approximately 44%, 48% and 48% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, consisted of payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Only a small percentage of that revenue resulted from Medicaid payment. These government programs generally reimburse us on a fee-for-service basis based on predetermined government reimbursement rate schedules. As a result of these reimbursement schedules, we are limited in the amount we can record as revenue for our services from these government programs. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") can change these schedules and therefore the prices that the agency pays for these services. In addition, if our operating costs increase, we will not be able to recover these costs from government payers. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement for Medicare reimbursement. Various state Medicaid programs also have recently reduced Medicaid payments to providers based on state budget reductions. Although Medicaid reimbursement encompasses only a small portion of our business, there can be no certainty as to whether Medicaid reimbursement will increase or decrease in the future and what affect, if any, this will have on our business. In July 2009, in response to a study of diagnostic imaging by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, CMS initially proposed that 2010 Medicare reimbursement rates for radiation oncology be significantly reduced, primarily caused by increasing the assumed equipment utilization factors from 50% to 90% for equipment with a cost of $1 million or greater which includes both diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology. The final 2010 Medicare rates promulgated by CMS applied such increased equipment utilization factor only to diagnostic imaging, and therefore, did not impact radiation oncology. CMS in its 2011 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule posted November 2, 2010, similarly does not revise the equipment utilization factor for radiation oncology. There can be no assurance, however, that CMS will not revisit radiation oncology's equipment utilization assumption at some time in the future or that any resulting adjustment to the rates paid to radiation oncology services will not be material. Medicare reimbursement rates for all procedures under Medicare are determined by a formula which takes into account a conversion factor ("CF") which is updated on an annual basis based on the sustainable growth rate ("SGR"). On January 1, 2010, the CF was scheduled to decrease 21.2%, but Congress postponed this decrease throughout the year by passing several pieces of legislation. Additionally, in June 2010, Congress passed a 2.2% increase. The CF was again scheduled to decrease 24.9% as of January 1, 2011, but Congress delayed the scheduled cut until the end of 2011. The final Medicare 2012 Physician Fee Schedule, released by CMS on November 1, 2011, would have resulted in a reimbursement decrease of 27.4% as of January 1, 2012. However, Congress again delayed the 36 Table of Contents implementation of this payment cut, first through February 29, 2012 under the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, and then through the end of 2012 under the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012. If future reductions are not suspended, and if a permanent "doc fix" is not signed into law, the reimbursement decrease currently scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2013, will have a significant adverse impact on our business. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business. National healthcare reform remains a focus at the federal level. On March 21, 2010, the House of Representatives passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the corresponding reconciliation bill. President Obama signed the larger comprehensive bill into law on March 23, 2010 and the reconciliation bill on March 30, 2010 (collectively, the "Health Care Reform Act"). The comprehensive $940 billion dollar overhaul is expected to extend coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured Americans. A significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government healthcare programs, principally Medicare, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. We anticipate the Health Care Reform Act will significantly affect how the healthcare industry operates in relation to Medicare, Medicaid and the insurance industry. The Health Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing fraud and abuse, enrollment in federal healthcare programs, and reimbursement changes, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. We can give no assurance that the Health Care Reform Act will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform would affect our business. If payments by managed care organizations and other commercial payers decrease, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We estimate that approximately 55%, 51% and 51% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31 2009, 2010 and 2011 respectively, was derived from commercial payers such as managed care organizations and private health insurance programs as well as individuals. As of December 31, 2011, we have over 1,300 contracts with commercial payers. These commercial payers generally pay us for the services rendered to an insured patient based upon predetermined rates. Managed care organizations typically pay at lower rates than private health insurance programs. While commercial payer rates are generally higher than government program reimbursement rates, commercial payer rates are based in part on Medicare reimbursement rates and when Medicare rates are lowered, commercial rates are often lowered as well. If managed care organizations and other private insurers reduce their rates or we experience a significant shift in our revenue mix toward certain additional managed care payers or Medicare or Medicaid reimbursements, then our revenue and profitability may decline and our operating margins will be reduced. Nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts as well as enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Any inability to maintain suitable financial arrangements with commercial payers could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our overall business results may suffer from the economic downturn. The United States economy has weakened significantly. Depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries and geographic locations. During economic 37 Table of Contents downturns, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. These budget deficits may force federal, state and local government entities to decrease spending for health and human service programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our treatment centers. Other risks we face from general economic weakness include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective procedures as well as routine diagnostic examinations, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables. Due to the rising costs of managed care premiums and co-pay amounts, coupled with the current economic environment, we may realize an increased exposure to bad debt due to patients' inability to pay for certain forms of cancer treatment. As more patients become uninsured as a result of job losses or receive reduced coverage as a result of cost-control measures by employers to offset the increased costs of managed care premiums, patients are becoming increasingly responsible for the rising costs of treatment, which is increasing our exposure to bad debt. This also relates to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The shifting responsibility to pay for care has, in some instances, resulted in patients electing not to receive certain forms of cancer treatment. In response to this environment, we have improved our processes associated with verification of insurance eligibility and patient responsibility payment programs. In addition, we have improved our patient financial counseling efforts and developed tools to monitor our progress in this area. However, a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We depend on recruiting and retaining radiation oncologists and other qualified healthcare professionals for our success. Our success is dependent upon our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain or affiliate with radiation oncologists, physicists, dosimetrists and radiation therapists. While there is currently a national shortage of these healthcare professionals, we have not experienced significant problems attracting and retaining key personnel and professionals in the recent past. We face competition for such personnel from other healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. In the event we are unable to recruit and retain these professionals, such shortages could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow. Additionally, many of our senior radiation oncologists, due to their reputations and experience, are very important in the recruitment and education of radiation oncologists. The loss of any such senior radiation oncologists could negatively impact us. Most of our approximately 117 radiation oncologists in the domestic U.S. are employed under employment agreements which, among other things, provide that the radiation oncologists will not compete with us (or the professional corporations contracting with us) for a period of time after their employment terminates. Such covenants not to compete are enforced to varying degrees from state to state. In most states, a covenant not to compete will be enforced only to the extent that it is necessary to protect the legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement, that it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought and that it is not contrary to the public interest. This determination is made based upon all the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. It is unclear whether our interests under our administrative services agreements will be viewed by courts as the type of protected business interest that would permit us or the professional corporations to enforce a non-competition covenant against the radiation 38 Table of Contents oncologists. Since our success depends in substantial part on our ability to preserve the business of our radiation oncologists, a determination that these provisions are unenforceable could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on our senior management and we may be materially harmed if we lose any member of our senior management. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management, especially Daniel E. Dosoretz, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director on the Company's board of directors, Daniel H. Galmarini, our Chief Technology Officer, Constantine A. Mantz, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer, Eduardo Fernandez, M.D. Ph.D., Senior Vice President, Physician Management and Alejandro Dosoretz, President and Chief Executive Officer of Medical Developers, LLC ("MDLLC"). We have entered into executive employment agreements with certain members of our senior management, including Dr. Dosoretz. Because these members of our senior management team have been with us for over 10 years and have contributed greatly to our growth, their services would be very difficult, time consuming and costly to replace. We carry key-man life insurance on Dr. Dosoretz. The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. A decision by any of these individuals to leave our employ, to compete with us or to reduce their involvement, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to grow our business effectively or successfully implement our growth plans if we are unable to recruit additional management and other personnel. Our ability to continue to grow our business effectively and successfully implement our growth strategy is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management employees and other key employees. We believe there are a limited number of qualified people in our business and the industry in which we compete. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and retain the key personnel that may be necessary to grow our business effectively or successfully implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to attract and retain talented personnel it could limit our ability to grow our business. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. We have $679.0 million of total debt outstanding. Subject to the limits contained in the indenture governing our notes and our senior secured credit facilities, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. 39 Table of Contents Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. The radiation therapy market is highly competitive. Radiation therapy is a highly competitive business in each market in which we operate. Our treatment centers face competition from hospitals, other medical practitioners and other operators of radiation treatment centers. There is a growing trend of physicians in specialties other than radiation oncology, such as urology, entering the radiation treatment business. If this trend continues it could harm our referrals and our business. Certain of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, in states that do not require a certificate of need for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. In the event that we are not able to compete successfully, our business may be adversely affected and competition may make it more difficult for us to affiliate with or employ additional radiation oncologists on terms that are favorable to us. We could be the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. Healthcare companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. Further, under the False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring "qui tam", or "whistleblower", suits against companies that knowingly submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. The False Claims Act imposes penalties of not less than $5,500 and not more than $11,000, plus three times the amount of damages which the government sustains because of the submission of a false claim. In addition, if we are found to have violated the False Claims Act, we could be excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, inquiries from federal and state agencies related to potential False Claims Act liability. Depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct audits of our healthcare operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("MMA") established the Recovery Audit Contractor ("RAC") three-year demonstration program to conduct 40 Table of Contents post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and mandated its nationwide expansion by 2010. CMS has awarded contracts to four RACs that are implementing the permanent RAC program on a nationwide basis. In addition, CMS employs Medicaid Integrity Contractors ("MICs") to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. Throughout 2011, MIC audits will continue to expand. In addition to MICs, several other contractors, including the state Medicaid agencies, have increased their review activities. Should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We may be subject to actions for false claims, which could harm our business, if we do not comply with government coding and billing rules. If we fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, we could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could harm us. We estimate that approximately 44%, 48% and 48% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, consisted of payments from Medicare and Medicaid programs. In billing for our services to third-party payers, we must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and on industry practice. Failure to follow these rules could result in potential civil liability under the False Claims Act, under which extensive financial penalties can be imposed. It could further result in criminal liability under various federal and state criminal statutes. We submit thousands of claims for Medicare and other payments and there can be no assurance that there have not been errors. While we carefully and regularly review our documentation, coding and billing practices as part of our compliance program, the rules are frequently vague and confusing and we cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers or private whistleblowers will not challenge our practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with the federal anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could materially harm us. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally funded healthcare program. The federal anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope, as remuneration includes the transfer of anything of value, in cash or in kind. Financial relationships covered by this statute can include any relationship where remuneration is provided for referrals including payments not commensurate with fair market value, whether in the form of space, equipment leases, professional or technical services or anything else of value. As it is an "intent-based" statute, as detailed in federal court precedent, one or both parties must intend the remuneration to be in exchange for or to induce referrals. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000, imprisonment of up to five years, civil penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the remuneration involved, civil penalties under the federal False Claims Act of up to $11,000 for each claim submitted, plus three times the amounts paid for such claims and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This participation exclusion, if applied to us or one or more of our subsidiaries or affiliates, could result in significant reductions in our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 41 Table of Contents In addition, most of the states in which we operate, including Florida, have also adopted laws, similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of whether the source of payment is a government payer or a private payer. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licenses. Under a provision of the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, civil monetary penalties (and exclusion) may be imposed on any person who offers or transfers remuneration to any patient who is a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary, when the person knows or should know that the remuneration is likely to induce the patient to receive medical services from a particular provider. This broad provision applies to many kinds of inducements or benefits provided to patients, including complimentary items, services or transportation that are of more than a nominal value. We have reviewed our practices of providing services to our patients, and have structured those services in a manner that we believe complies with the law and its interpretation by government authorities. We cannot provide assurances, however, that government authorities will not take a contrary view and impose civil monetary penalties and exclude us for past or present practices. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenue. We are subject to the federal Stark Law, as well as similar state statutes and regulations, which bans payments for designated health services ("DHS") rendered as a result of referrals by physicians to DHS entities with which the physicians (or immediate family members) have a financial relationship. DHS includes but is not limited to radiation therapy, radiology and laboratory services. A "financial relationship" includes investment and compensation arrangements, both direct and indirect. The regulatory framework of the Stark Law is to first prohibit all referrals from physicians to entities for Medicare DHS and then to except certain types of arrangements from that broad general prohibition. State self-referral laws and regulations vary significantly based on the state and, in many cases, have not been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies. These state laws and regulations can encompass not only services reimbursed by Medicaid or government payers but also private payers. Violation of these federal and state laws and regulations may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of licenses, $15,000 civil monetary penalties for specified infractions, $100,000 for a circumvention scheme, criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs, and potential false claims liability, including via "qui tam" action, of not less than $5,500 and not more than $11,000, plus three times the amount of damages that the government sustains because of an improperly submitted claim. The repayment provisions in the Stark Law are not dependent on the parties having an improper intent; rather, the Stark Law is a strict liability statute and any violation is subject to repayment of all "tainted" referrals. Our compensation and other financial arrangements with physicians are governed by the federal Stark Law. We rely on certain exceptions to the Stark Law, including those covering employees and in-office ancillary services, and the exclusion of certain requests by radiation oncologists for radiation therapy services from the definition of "referral." In a limited number of markets, we have relationships with non-radiation oncology physicians such as surgical and gynecological oncologists and urologists that are members of a group practice with our radiation oncologists and we rely on the Stark group practice definition and rules with respect to such relationships. 42 Table of Contents The Health Care Reform Act also imposes new disclosure requirements, including one such requirement on referring physicians under the federal Stark Law to inform patients that they may obtain certain imaging services (e.g. MRI, CT and PET) or other designated health services as specified by the Secretary in the future from a provider other than that physician, his or her group practice, or another physician in his or her group practice. To date, CMS has not indicated that these disclosure requirements will extend to radiation therapy referrals. While we believe that our financial relationships with physicians and referral practices are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that government authorities might take a different position. If we were found to be in violation of the Stark Law, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines as specified above, exclusion from participation in government and private payer programs and requirements to refund amounts previously received from government and private payers. In addition, expansion of our operations to new jurisdictions, or new interpretations of laws in our existing jurisdictions, could require structural and organizational modifications of our relationships with physicians to comply with that jurisdiction's laws. Such structural and organizational modifications could result in lower profitability and failure to achieve our growth objectives. If a federal or state agency asserts a different position or enacts new laws or regulations regarding illegal payments under the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, experience a significant reduction in our revenue or be excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our treatment centers, equipment, personnel, services, pricing or capital expenditure programs, which could increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for or profitability of our services. Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with our radiation oncologists or other physicians to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our treatment centers. If any of our business arrangements with our radiation oncologists or other physicians in a position to make referrals of radiation therapy services were deemed to violate the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, our business would be adversely affected. Our costs and potential risks have increased as a result of the regulations relating to privacy and security of patient information. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient information privacy and security concerns, including state laws related to identity theft. In particular, the federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that: •protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of patient information; •require notifications to individuals, and in certain cases to government agencies and the media, in the event of a breach of unsecured protected health information; •require the implementation of security safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of individually identifiable health information in electronic form; and •prescribe specific transaction formats and data code sets for certain electronic healthcare transactions. 43 Table of Contents Compliance with these regulations requires us to spend money and substantial time and resources. We believe that we are in material compliance with the HIPAA regulations with which we are currently required to comply. If we fail to comply with the HIPAA regulations, we could suffer civil penalties up to $50,000 per violation, not to exceed $1.5 million per calendar year and criminal penalties with fines up to $250,000 per violation. Our facilities could be subject to a periodic audit by the federal government, and enforcement of HIPAA violations may occur by either federal agencies or state attorneys general. State law limitations and prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine may materially harm our business and limit how we can operate. State governmental authorities regulate the medical industry and medical practices extensively. Many states have corporate practice of medicine laws which prohibit us from: •employing physicians; •practicing medicine, which, in some states, includes managing or operating a radiation treatment center; •certain types of fee arrangements with physicians; •owning or controlling equipment used in a medical practice; •setting fees charged for physician services; •controlling the content of physician advertisements; •billing and coding for services; •pursuing relationships with physicians and other referral sources; or •adding facilities and services. In addition, many states impose limits on the tasks a physician may delegate to other staff members. We have administrative services agreements in states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine such as California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina. Corporate practice of medicine laws and their interpretation vary from state to state, and regulatory authorities enforce them with broad discretion. We have structured our agreements and services in those states in a manner that we believe complied with the law and its interpretation by government authorities. If, however, we are deemed to be in violation of these laws, we could be required to restructure or terminate our agreements which could materially harm our business and limit how we operate. In the event the corporate practice of medicine laws of other states would adversely limit our ability to operate, it could prevent us from expanding into the particular state and impact our growth strategy. In certain states we depend on administrative services agreements with professional corporations, including related party professional corporations, and if we are unable to continue to enter into them or they are terminated, we could be materially harmed. Certain states, including California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, have laws prohibiting business corporations from employing physicians. Our treatment centers in California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, operate through administrative services agreements with professional corporations that employ the radiation oncologists who provide professional services at the treatment centers in those states. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, $122.2 million, $118.4 million and $114.7 million, respectively, of our net patient service revenue was derived from administrative services agreements, as opposed to $395.4 million, $417.5 million and $524.0 million, respectively, from all of our other centers. The professional corporations in these states 44 Table of Contents are currently owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders, who are licensed to practice medicine in those states. As we enter into new states that will require an administrative services agreement, there can be no assurance that a related party professional corporation, or any professional corporation, will be willing or able to enter into an administrative services agreement. Furthermore, if we enter into an administrative services agreement with an unrelated party there could be an increased risk of differences arising or future termination. We cannot assure you that a professional corporation will not seek to terminate an agreement with us on any basis, including on the basis of state laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine nor can we assure you that governmental authorities in those states will not seek termination of these arrangements on the same basis. While we have not been subject to such proceedings in the past, nor are we currently aware of any other corporations that are subject to such proceedings, we could be materially harmed if any state governmental authorities or the professional corporations with which we have an administrative services agreement were to succeed in such a termination. Our business could be materially harmed by future interpretation or implementation of state laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting. Many states prohibit the splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and non-physicians, as well as between treating physicians and referral sources. These laws vary from state to state and are enforced by courts and regulatory agencies, each with broad discretion. Some states have interpreted certain types of fee arrangements in practice management agreements between entities and physicians as unlawful fee-splitting. We believe our arrangements with physicians comply in all material respects with the fee-splitting laws of the states in which we operate. Nevertheless, if government regulatory authorities were to disagree, we and our radiation oncologists could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be required to restructure or terminate our contractual and other arrangements, which would result in a loss of revenue and could result in less input into the business decisions of such practices. In addition, expansion of our operations to other states with certain types of fee-splitting prohibitions may require structural and organizational modification to the form of relationships that we currently have with physicians, professional corporations and hospitals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our treatment center operations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our treatment center operations are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that our treatment centers meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including those relating to: •qualification of medical and support persons; •pricing of services by healthcare providers; •the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; •clinic licensure and certificates of need; •maintenance and protection of records; or •environmental protection, health and safety. While we have structured our operations in a manner that we believe complies in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that government regulators will agree, given the breadth and complexity of such laws. If a government agency were to find that we are not in compliance with these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including becoming the subject of cease and desist orders, rejection of the payment of our claims, the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in government or private healthcare programs. 45 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by technological and therapeutic changes. The treatment of cancer patients is subject to potential revolutionary technological and therapeutic changes. Future technological developments could render our equipment obsolete. We may incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. In addition, there may be significant advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery, biological therapy, or in cancer prevention techniques, which could reduce demand or even eliminate the need for the radiation therapy services we provide. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire and develop additional treatment centers on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, our future growth could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisition and development opportunities on reasonable terms. We began operating our first radiation treatment center in 1983, and provide radiation therapy at all of our treatment centers. We expect to continue to add additional treatment centers in our existing and new local markets. Our growth, however, will depend on several factors, including: •our ability to obtain desirable locations for treatment centers in suitable markets; •our ability to identify, recruit and retain or affiliate with a sufficient number of radiation oncologists and other healthcare professionals; •our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our growth strategy; and •our ability to successfully operate under applicable government regulations. Growth through acquisitions is a primary component of our business strategy. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material. Future acquisitions could be financed by internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. If we complete acquisitions, we will encounter various associated risks, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, goodwill impairment, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. See "Risk Factors—We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional treatment centers, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those treatment centers." We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional treatment centers, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those treatment centers. Over the past three years we have acquired 35 treatment centers and developed 10 treatment centers. When we acquire or develop additional treatment centers, we may: •be unable to successfully operate the treatment centers; •have difficulty integrating their operations and personnel; •be unable to retain radiation oncologists or key management personnel; •acquire treatment centers with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations; 46 Table of Contents •experience difficulties with transitioning or integrating the information systems of acquired treatment centers; •be unable to contract with third-party payers or attract patients to our treatment centers; and/or •experience losses and lower gross revenues and operating margins during the initial periods of operating our newly-developed treatment centers. Larger acquisitions can substantially increase our potential exposure to business risks. Furthermore, integrating a new treatment center could be expensive and time consuming, and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and other key personnel. We may from time to time explore acquisition opportunities outside of the United States when favorable opportunities are available to us. In addition to the risks set forth herein, foreign acquisitions involve unique risks including the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with the specific country, currency risks, the relative uncertainty regarding laws and regulations and the potential difficulty of integrating operations across different cultures and languages. We currently plan to continue to acquire and develop new treatment centers in existing and new local markets. We may not be able to structure economically beneficial arrangements in new markets as a result of healthcare laws applicable to such market or otherwise. If these plans change for any reason or the anticipated schedules for opening and costs of development are revised by us, we may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that these planned treatment centers will be completed or that, if developed, will achieve sufficient patient volume to generate positive operating margins. If we are unable to timely and efficiently integrate an acquired or newly-developed treatment center, our business could suffer. In addition, we may incur significant transaction fees and expenses even for potential transactions that are not consummated. Efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare treatment centers could prevent us from developing or acquiring additional treatment centers or other facilities or renovating our existing treatment centers. Many states have enacted certificate of need laws which require prior approval for the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare treatment centers. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare treatment centers or services. In the states of Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan, North Carolina, Rhode Island, South Carolina and West Virginia in which we currently operate, certificates of need must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters. Other states in which we now or may in the future operate may also require certificates of need under certain circumstances not currently applicable to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the certificates of need or other required approvals for ongoing, additional or expanded treatment centers or services in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a treatment center, we may agree to replace equipment or expand the acquired treatment center. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional treatment centers or other facilities, expand the healthcare services we provide at these treatment centers or replace equipment or expand acquired treatment centers. We are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have recently commenced significant operations in foreign countries. Currently, we operate through 22 legal entities in Argentina, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Mexico and El Salvador, in 47 Table of Contents addition to our operations in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not necessarily limited to: •new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, which may conflict with U.S. laws; •local economic conditions; •potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; •increased costs of transportation or shipping; •credit risk and financial conditions of government, commercial and patient payors; •risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; •potential imposition of restrictions on investments; •potential declines in government and/or private payer reimbursement amounts for our services; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; •foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and •local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official or agent thereof for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Some of our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in foreign countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The main currency to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, is the Argentine peso. The exchange rate between the Argentine peso and the U.S. dollar in recent years has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of this currency will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. 48 Table of Contents We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into a transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets. A significant portion of our total assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, accounted for approximately 60% and 69% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We may not realize the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We expect to engage in additional transactions that will result in our recognition of additional goodwill or other intangible assets. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and is therefore impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our goodwill or the unamortized portion of our intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we wrote-off approximately $91.2 million in goodwill as a result of our annual impairment test and an additional $2.5 million as a result of closing certain radiation treatment centers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we wrote-off approximately $360.6 million in goodwill, trade name, leasehold improvements and other investments as a result of our annual impairment testing of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and rebranding initiatives relating to our trade name. Our information systems are critical to our business and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information, and to provide our radiation treatment centers with efficient and effective accounting and scheduling systems. Our information systems require maintenance and upgrading to meet our needs, which could significantly increase our administrative expenses. We are currently upgrading multiple systems and migrating to other systems within our organization. Furthermore, any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. The performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. Our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: •accounting and financial reporting; •billing and collecting accounts; •coding and compliance; •clinical systems; •medical records and document storage; •inventory management; 49 Table of Contents •negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and •monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full Medicare payment updates. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the DHHS has developed and is implementing an incentive payment program for eligible healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record ("EHR") technology. If our radiation treatment centers are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. Further, beginning in 2015, eligible healthcare professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are addressing a previous material weakness with respect to our internal controls. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, we identified a material weakness in internal controls relating to the preparation of the income tax accounts. We have taken steps since then to remediate the internal control weakness such that at December 31, 2010, our controls over income taxes are operating effectively. During 2010, we continued remediation over the preparation of the income tax accounts and as of December 31, 2010, we remediated and implemented certain processes and procedures to improve our calculation of our tax provision and our reconciliation of the tax balance sheet accounts. We have continued to improve our processes and procedures related to the preparation of the income tax accounts throughout 2011. As we further optimize and refine our income tax provision processes, we will review the related controls and may take additional steps to ensure that they remain effective and are integrated appropriately. While we have implemented the procedures described above and will continue to take further steps in the near future to strengthen further our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will not identify control deficiencies in the future or that such deficiencies will not have a material impact on our operating results or financial statements. A significant number of our treatment centers are concentrated in certain states, particularly Florida, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in those states. Our Florida treatment centers accounted for approximately 46%, 45% and 40% of our freestanding radiation revenues during the years ended December 31 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our treatment centers are also concentrated in the states of Michigan and North Carolina, which accounted for approximately 3.5% and 6.5%, respectively, of our freestanding radiation revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. This concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory requirements in those locations, including those related to false and improper claims, anti-kickback laws, self-referral laws, fee-splitting, corporate practice of medicine, anti-trust, licensing and certificates of need, as well as economic and other conditions which could impact us. If our treatment centers in these states are adversely affected by changes in regulatory, economic and other conditions, our revenue and profitability may decline. Our treatment centers in Florida and other areas that could be disrupted or damaged by hurricanes. Florida is susceptible to hurricanes and we currently have 30 radiation treatment centers located in Florida. Our Florida centers accounted for approximately 46%, 45% and 40% of our freestanding 50 Table of Contents radiation revenues during the years ended December 31 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In 2005, 21 of our treatment centers in South Florida were disrupted by Hurricane Wilma which required us to close all of these centers for one business day. Although none of these treatment centers suffered structural damage as a result of the hurricane, their utility services were disrupted. While Hurricane Wilma did not have any long-term impact on our business, our Florida treatment centers and any of our other treatment centers located in other areas that are in the path of a hurricane could be subject to significant hurricane-related disruptions and/or damage in the future and could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results. We carry property damage and business interruption insurance on our facilities, but there can be no assurance that it would be adequate to cover all of our hurricane-related losses. We have potential conflicts of interest relating to our related party transactions which could harm our business. We have potential conflicts of interest relating to existing agreements we have with certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we paid an aggregate of $17.1 million, $19.9 million and $21.5 million, respectively, under certain of our related party agreements, including leases, and we received $89.3 million, $85.6 million and $82.7 million, respectively, pursuant to our administrative services agreements with related parties. Potential conflicts of interest can exist if a related party has to make a decision that has different implications for us and the related party. If a dispute arises in connection with any of these agreements, if not resolved satisfactorily to us, our business could be harmed. These agreements include •administrative services agreements with professional corporations that are owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders; •leases we have entered into with entities owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders; and •medical malpractice insurance which we acquire from an entity owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. In California, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, we have administrative services agreements with professional corporations that are owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders who own interests in these professional corporations. While we have transition services agreements corresponding to our administrative services agreements in place in all states except New York that provide us with the ability to designate qualified successor physician owners of the shares held by the physician owners of these professional corporations upon the occurrence of certain events, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce them under the laws of the respective states or that they will not be challenged by regulatory agencies. Potential conflicts of interest may arise in connection with the administrative services agreements that may have materially different implications for us and the professional corporations and there can be no assurance that it will not harm us. For example, we bill for such services either on a fixed basis, percentage of net collections basis, or on a per treatment basis, depending on the particular state requirements and certain of these arrangements are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis. We may be unable to renegotiate acceptable fees, in which event many of the administrative services agreements provide for binding arbitration. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiations or arbitration this could negatively impact our operating margins or result in the termination of our administrative services agreements. Additionally, we lease 34 of our properties from ownership groups that consist of certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. Our lease for the Broadway office in Fort Myers, Florida is on a month-to-month basis and there can be no assurance that it will continue in the future. We may be unable to renegotiate these leases when they come up for renewal on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 51 Table of Contents In October 2003, we replaced our existing third-party medical malpractice insurance coverage with coverage we obtained from an insurance entity which is owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. We renewed this coverage in 2009, 2010 and 2011, with the approval of the Audit/Compliance Committee of the Company's board of directors. We may be unable to renegotiate this coverage at acceptable rates and comparable coverage may not be available from third-party insurance companies. If we are unsuccessful in renewing our malpractice insurance coverage, we may not be able to continue to operate without being exposed to substantial risks of claims being made against us for damage awards we are unable to pay. Related party transactions between us and any related party are subject to approval by the Audit/Compliance Committee on behalf of the Company's board of directors or by the Company's board of directors, and disputes are handled by the Company's board of directors. There can be no assurance that the above or any future conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. If not resolved, such conflicts could harm our business. For a further description of our related party transactions, see "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence." Our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us. Our treatment centers provide specialized treatment involving the use of radioactive material in the treatment of the lungs, prostate, breasts, cervix and other organs. The materials are obtained from, and, if not permanently placed in a patient or consumed, returned to, a third-party provider of supplies to hospitals and other radiation therapy practices, which has the ultimate responsibility for its proper disposal. We, however, remain subject to state and federal laws regulating the protection of employees who may be exposed to hazardous material and regulating the proper handling, storage and disposal of that material. Although we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability, or require us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on us. In response to a number of articles concerning the risk of significant (sometimes fatal) errors in radiation therapy, especially relating to linear radiation, accreditation of facilities and the establishment of a national error reporting database are under consideration. Several articles have been published discussing the risks of (sometimes fatal) errors in radiation therapy treatment, especially those relating to linear accelerators. In response, American College of Radiation Oncology ("ACRO") has called for required accreditation of all facilities which bill Medicare for advanced medical imaging and radiation oncology services, including those in hospitals. In addition, the American Society for Radiation Oncology called for the establishment of the nation's first central database for the reporting of errors involving linear accelerators and CT scanners. Federal legislation in these areas is under consideration and a congressional hearing was recently held. Of our 96 domestic U.S. treatment centers, 79 have received or are in process of receiving ACRO accreditation. In addition to a deep physics infrastructure and internal maintenance department, we have recently begun to utilize Gamma Function as a broad application radiation safety monitoring tool to minimize potential errors in our radiation therapy treatments. While we continue to improve upon safety measures aimed at minimizing errors in radiation therapy treatment in accordance with our internal protocols as well as the mandates of organizations like ACRO, we cannot assure you that any further critical press and government scrutiny will not adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. We could be subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability 52 Table of Contents or other legal theories. For a discussion of current pending material litigation against us, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." If payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Our financial results could be adversely affected by the increasing costs of professional liability insurance and by successful malpractice claims. We are exposed to the risk of professional liability and other claims against us and our radiation oncologists and other physicians and professionals arising out of patient medical treatment at our treatment centers. Our risk exposure as it relates to our non-radiation oncology physicians could be greater than with our radiation oncologists to the extent such non-radiation oncology physicians are engaged in diagnostic activities. Malpractice claims, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards which might exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Insurance against losses of this type can be expensive and insurance premiums may increase in the near future. Insurance rates vary from state to state, by physician specialty and other factors. The rising costs of insurance premiums, as well as successful malpractice claims against us or one of our physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. It is also possible that our excess liability and other insurance coverage will not continue to be available at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. In addition, our insurance does not cover all potential liabilities arising from governmental fines and penalties, indemnification agreements and certain other uninsurable losses. For example, from time to time we agree to indemnify third parties, such as hospitals and clinical laboratories, for various claims that may not be covered by insurance. As a result, we may become responsible for substantial damage awards that are uninsured. If payment for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We are indirectly owned and controlled by Vestar and its interests may conflict with yours as a noteholder. Vestar indirectly controls approximately 81% of the Class A voting equity units of RT Investments LLC, which controls us, and which in turn controls Radiation Therapy Services, Inc. ("RTS"). As a result, they have the power to elect a majority of RTS's board of directors and effectively have control over major decisions regardless of whether noteholders believe that any such decisions are in their own best interests. The interests of Vestar as an equity holder may conflict with your interests as a noteholder of RTS. Vestar may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds at the expense of our financial condition and affect our ability to make payments on the notes. In addition, Vestar may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that it believes could enhance its equity investments even though such transactions might involve risks to you as a noteholder of RTS. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Properties Our executive and administrative offices are located in Fort Myers, Florida. These offices contain approximately 79,000 square feet of space. We also lease approximately 5,600 square feet of administrative office space in Florence, Kentucky pursuant to an operating lease that expires April 30, 53 Table of Contents 2012. These offices will be adequate for our current primary needs, we also believe that we will require significant additional space to meet our future needs and such future expansion is in the preliminary stages. Our radiation treatment centers typically range in size from 5,000 to 12,000 square feet. We currently operate 127 radiation treatment centers in Alabama, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, South Carolina, West Virginia and in international markets in South America, Central America and the Caribbean located in Argentina, Mexico, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala and El Salvador. We own the real estate on which four of our treatment centers are located. We lease land and space at 114 treatment center locations, of which in 34 of these locations, certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders have an ownership interest. These leases expire at various dates between 2012 and 2044 and 71 of these leases have one or more renewal options of five or 10 years. Also, nine of our treatment center locations are in hospital-based and other group facilities. We consider all of our offices and treatment centers to be well-suited to our present requirements. However, as we expand to additional treatment centers, or where additional capacity is necessary in a treatment center, additional space will be obtained where feasible. For further information relating to our properties and treatment centers, can be found in Item 1 of this report under the caption, "Business—Treatment Centers." Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in certain legal actions and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that an adverse decision in any of these matters would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable to Radiation Therapy Services Holdings, Inc. 54 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information We are a direct wholly owned subsidiary of RT Investments. Accordingly, there is no public trading market for our common stock. Stockholders As of March 1, 2012, there was one owner of record of our common stock, RT Investments. Dividends We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes generally prohibit the payment of dividends by us on shares of our common stock, with certain limited exceptions. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table lists the number of securities of RT Investments available for issuance as of December 31, 2011 under the RT Investments equity-based incentive plan, as amended. For a description of the plan, please see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options (a) Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans (excluding Securities Reflected in Column(a)) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders N/A N/A Non-voting preferred equity units: 4,874 Voting Class A equity units: 22,608 Non-voting Class B equity units: 13,815 Non-voting Class C equity units: 51,040 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders N/A N/A N/A Non-voting preferred equity units: 4,874 TOTAL — — Voting Class A equity units: 22,608 Non-voting Class B equity units: 13,815 Non-voting Class C equity units: 51,040 55 Table of Contents Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities On March 1, 2011, 25 shares of common stock of the Company were issued in connection with our acquisition of MDLLC, which we refer to herein as the "MDLLC Acquisition". In addition, the Company's direct parent, RT Investments issued 13,660 Preferred Units and 258,955 Class A Units as a component of the consideration in the MDLLC Acquisition. The Company's direct parent, RT Investments, sold equity securities during this period. The following table sets forth the number of units of common equity of RT Investments issued during 2011 pursuant to the RT Investments equity-based incentive plan, as amended. The units were granted under Rule 701 promulgated under the Securities Act. Dates Title of Securities Amount Purchasers Consideration March 1, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 12,499 Key Employee $ 3,125 Class C non-voting equity units 32,325 Key Employee $ 1,616 March 1, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 20,831 One Officer $ 5,208 Class C non-voting equity units 53,874 One Officer $ 2,694 March 14, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 2,083 Key Employee $ 521 Class C non-voting equity units 5,387 Key Employee $ 269 March 14, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 4,166 Key Employee $ 1,042 Class C non-voting equity units 10,775 Key Employee $ 539 July 5, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 2,083 Key Employee $ 521 Class C non-voting equity units 5,387 Key Employee $ 269 Repurchases of Equity Securities The Company's direct parent, RT Investments repurchased the following equity units during 2011: Dates Title of Securities Amount Repurchase From Consideration March 1, 2011 Class B non-voting equity units 33,330 One Officer $ 8,333 Class C non-voting equity units 86,199 One Officer $ 4,310 56 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected historical consolidated financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 (Successor) were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All adjustments necessary for a fair presentation have been included. All such adjustments are considered to be of a normal recurring nature. The selected historical consolidated financial data as of December 31, 2007 and for the year then ended (Predecessor) and for the period from January 1 to February 21, 2008 (Predecessor), and the period from February 22 to December 31, 2008 (Successor) were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, adjusted for the retrospective presentation impact of changes in accounting guidance related to non-controlling interests, which are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On October 19, 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary, Radiation Therapy Services, Inc. ("RTS"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Radiation Therapy Investments, LLC ("RT Investments"), Parent and RTS MergerCo, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, pursuant to which RTS MergerCo, Inc. was merged with and into RTS with RTS as the surviving corporation and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Merger"). As a result of the purchase accounting treatment applied for the Merger, our audited consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Successor as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. For dates prior to February 22, 2008, our audited consolidated financial statements are of the Predecessor. These statements have been prepared using the Predecessor's basis in the assets and liabilities and the historical results of operations for periods prior to the Merger. Periods subsequent to February 22, 2008 have been prepared using our basis in the assets and liabilities acquired in the purchase transaction. Our historical results included below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. You should read the following data in conjunction with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included 57 Table of Contents elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Predecessor Successor Year Ended December 31, 2007 Period From January 1 to February 21, 2008 Period From February 22 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2011 (in thousands): Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net patient service revenue $ 381,586 $ 76,927 $ 413,305 $ 517,646 $ 535,913 $ 638,690 Other revenue 8,595 1,179 5,864 6,838 8,050 6,027 Total revenues 390,181 78,106 419,169 524,484 543,963 644,717 Salaries and benefits 203,408 42,209 206,159 259,532 282,302 326,782 Medical supplies 12,982 2,924 32,545 45,361 43,027 51,838 Facility rent expense 10,877 2,269 13,783 22,106 27,885 33,375 Other operating expenses 17,896 3,102 17,027 24,398 27,103 33,992 General and administrative expenses 45,656 20,340 43,393 54,537 65,798 81,688 Depreciation and amortization 25,776 5,347 32,609 46,416 46,346 54,084 Provision for doubtful accounts 9,648 3,789 17,896 12,871 8,831 16,117 Interest expense, net 19,726 4,721 55,100 62,502 58,505 60,656 Gain on sale of interest in a radiation practice — — (3,113 ) — — — Loss on sale of assets of a radiation treatment center — — — — 1,903 — Termination of professional services agreement — — 7,000 — — — Loss on sale of real estate — — 1,036 — — — Loss on investments — — — — — 250 Gain on fair value adjustment of previously held equity investment — — — — — (234 ) Loss on foreign currency translations — — — — — 106 Loss on forward currency derivative contracts — — — — — 672 Early extinguishment of debt — 3,688 — — 10,947 — Impairment loss 1,568 — — 3,474 97,916 360,639 Total expenses 347,537 88,389 423,435 531,197 670,563 1,019,965 Income (loss) before income taxes 42,644 (10,283 ) (4,266 ) (6,713 ) (126,600 ) (375,248 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 15,525 570 (1,413 ) 1,002 (12,810 ) (25,365 ) Net income (loss) 27,119 (10,853 ) (2,853 ) (7,715 ) (113,790 ) (349,883 ) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests (1,211 ) (19 ) (2,483 ) (1,835 ) (1,698 ) (3,558 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Radiation Therapy Services Holdings, Inc. shareholder $ 25,908 $ (10,872 ) $ (5,336 ) $ (9,550 ) $ (115,488 ) $ (353,441 ) Balance Sheet Data (at end of period): Cash and cash equivalents $ 10,310 $ 49,168 $ 32,958 $ 13,977 $ 10,177 Working capital(1) 67,946 93,935 49,970 19,076 19,929 Total assets 582,096 1,405,940 1,379,225 1,236,330 998,592 Finance obligations 34,146 60,605 77,230 8,568 14,266 Total debt 305,159 577,444 549,059 598,831 679,033 Total equity 176,492 629,171 622,007 508,208 177,294 Other Financial Data: Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(2) 2.95x — — — — — Deficiency to cover fixed charges(3) — 10,341 6,631 9,127 128,292 377,137 (1)Working capital is calculated as current assets minus current liabilities. (2)For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, (i) earnings is defined as pretax income (loss) from continuing operations before adjustment for noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries plus/minus income or loss from equity investees plus fixed charges and (ii) fixed charges is defined as interest expense (including capitalized interest, of which we have none, and any amortization of debt issuance costs) and the estimated portion of operating lease expense deemed by management to represent the interest component of rent expense. (3)Coverage deficiency represents the amount by which earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges. 58 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the "Selected Financial Data "and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties, such as statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as "expect", "anticipate", "plan", "believe", "seek", "estimate", "intend", "future" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In particular, statements that we make in this section relating to the sufficiency of anticipated sources of capital to meet our cash requirements are forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including as a result of some of the factors described below and in the section titled "Risk Factors". You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We own, operate and manage treatment centers focused principally on providing comprehensive radiation treatment alternatives ranging from conventional external beam radiation, Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy ("IMRT"), as well as newer, more technologically-advanced procedures. We believe we are the largest company in the United States focused principally on providing radiation therapy. We opened our first radiation treatment center in 1983 and, as of December 31, 2011 we provided radiation therapy services in 127 treatment centers. Most of our treatment centers are strategically clustered into 28 local markets in 16 states, including Alabama, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Rhode Island, and West Virginia and 30 treatment centers are operated in South America, Central America and the Caribbean and one center located in India. Of these 127 treatment centers, 38 treatment centers were internally developed, 80 were acquired and nine involve hospital-based treatment centers and other groups. We have continued to expand our affiliation with physician specialties in closely related areas including gynecological and surgical oncology and urology in a limited number of our local markets to strengthen our clinical working relationships. On October 19, 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary, RTS entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with RT Investments, Parent and RTS MergerCo, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent, pursuant to RTS MergerCo, Inc. was merged with and into RTS with RTS as the surviving corporation and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Merger"). Upon completion of the Merger, each share of RTS's common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (other than certain shares held by members of RT Investments' management team and certain employees) was converted into $32.50 in cash without interest. The Merger was consummated on February 21, 2008 (the "Closing"). Immediately following the Closing, Parent became the owner of all of the outstanding common stock of RTS, which in turn, became a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of RT Investments, and Vestar and its affiliates became the beneficial owners of approximately 57% of the outstanding Class A voting equity units of RT Investments and its co-investors became the beneficial owners of approximately 26% of the outstanding Class A voting equity units of RT Investments. At December 31, 2011, Vestar and its affiliates currently control approximately 81% of the Class A voting equity units of RT Investments through its ability to directly or indirectly control its co-investors. In addition, at the Closing, the management investors, including current and former directors and executive officers, either exchanged certain shares of RTS's common stock or invested cash in RTS, in each case, in exchange for Class A voting equity units and non-voting preferred equity units of RT Investments. At the Closing, these management investors as a group became the beneficial owners of approximately 17% of the outstanding Class A voting equity units of RT Investments. RT Investments also adopted a management incentive equity plan pursuant to which 59 Table of Contents certain employees are eligible to receive incentive unit awards (Class B and C non-voting equity units) from an equity pool representing up to 13% of the common equity value of RT Investments, which as of December 31, 2011 was 12.1%. In connection with the Closing, Vestar, its affiliates and these management investors invested approximately $627.3 million in equity units of RT Investments. We use a number of metrics to assist management in evaluating financial condition and operating performance, and the most important follow: •The number of relative value units (RVU) delivered per day in our freestanding centers; •The percentage change in RVUs per day in our freestanding centers; •The number of treatments delivered per day in our freestanding centers; •The average revenue per treatment in our freestanding centers; •The ratio of funded debt to pro-forma adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (leverage ratio) and •Facility gross profit Revenue Drivers Our revenue growth is primarily driven by expanding the number of our centers, optimizing the utilization of advanced technologies at our existing centers and benefiting from demographic and population trends in most of our local markets. New centers are added or acquired based on capacity, demographics, and competitive considerations. The average revenue per treatment is sensitive to the mix of services used in treating a patient's tumor. The reimbursement rates set by Medicare and commercial payers tend to be higher for more advanced treatment technologies, reflecting their higher complexity. A key part of our business strategy is to make advanced technologies available once supporting economics exist. For example, we have been utilizing IGRT and Gamma Function, a proprietary capability to enable measurement of the actual amount of radiation delivered during a treatment and to provide immediate feedback for adaption of future treatments as well as for quality assurance, where appropriate, now that reimbursement codes are in place for these services. Operating Costs The principal costs of operating a treatment center are (1) the salary and benefits of the physician and technical staff, and (2) equipment and facility costs. The capacity of each physician and technical position is limited to a number of delivered treatments, while equipment and facility costs for a treatment center are generally fixed. These capacity factors cause profitability to be very sensitive to treatment volume. Profitability will tend to increase as resources from fixed costs including equipment and facility costs are utilized. Sources of Revenue By Payer We receive payments for our services rendered to patients from the government Medicare and Medicaid programs, commercial insurers, managed care organizations and our patients directly. Generally, our revenue is determined by a number of factors, including the payer mix, the number and nature of procedures performed and the rate of payment for the procedures. The following table sets 60 Table of Contents forth the percentage of our net patient service revenue we earned based upon the patients' primary insurance by category of payer in our last three fiscal years. Year Ended December 31, Payer (Domestic U.S.) 2009 2010 2011 Medicare 42.0 % 44.6 % 44.9 % Commercial 54.7 50.9 50.9 Medicaid 2.4 3.0 2.8 Self pay 0.9 1.5 1.4 Total net patient service revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Medicare and Medicaid Medicare is a major funding source for the services we provide and government reimbursement developments can have a material effect on operating performance. These developments include the reimbursement amount for each Current Procedural Terminology ("CPT") service that we provide and the specific CPT services covered by Medicare. CMS, the government agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, administers an annual process for considering changes in reimbursement rates and covered services. We have played, and will continue to play, a role in that process both directly and through the radiation oncology professional societies. Since cancer disproportionately affects elderly people, a significant portion of our net patient service revenue is derived from the Medicare program, as well as related co-payments. Medicare reimbursement rates are determined by CMS and are lower than our normal charges. Medicaid reimbursement rates are typically lower than Medicare rates; Medicaid payments represent approximately 2.8% of our net patient service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. Medicare reimbursement rates are determined by a formula which takes into account an industry wide Conversion Factor ("CF") multiplied by Relative Value Units ("RVUs") determined on a per procedure basis. The CF and RVUs may change on an annual basis. In 2009, the CF decreased by 5.3%. The net result of changes to the CF and RVUs over the last several years prior to 2009 has had an immaterial impact on our business, with the CF percentage decrease in 2009 having a significant impact on our business. It is difficult, however, to forecast the future impact of any changes. We depend on payments from government sources and any changes in Medicare or Medicaid programs could result in a decrease in our total revenues and net income. On January 1, 2010, the CF was scheduled to decrease 21.2%, but Congress postponed this decrease through the end of 2010 by passing several pieces of legislation. Additionally, in June 2010, Congress passed a 2.2% increase. The CF was again scheduled to decrease 24.9% as of January 1, 2011, but Congress further delayed the scheduled cut until the end of 2011. The final Medicare 2012 Physician Fee Schedule, released by CMS on November 1, 2011, would have resulted in a reimbursement decrease of 27.4% as of January 1, 2012. However, Congress again delayed the implementation of this payment cut, first through February 29, 2012 under the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, and then through the end of 2012 under the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012. If future reductions are not suspended, and if a permanent "doc fix" is not signed into law, the reimbursement decrease currently scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2013, will have a significant adverse impact on our business. In the final Medicare 2012 Physician Fee Schedule, CMS indicates that the primary impacts to specialties are due to the third year of the four-year transition to the utilization of the new Physician Practice Information Survey data and the rebasing of the Medicare Economic Index. However, changes also occurred between the 2012 Proposed and Final Physician Fee Schedule that relate to American 61 Table of Contents Medical Association Relative Value Scale Update Committee, ("AMA RUC") recommendations on certain radiation oncology codes. Because these changes were not included in the 2012 Proposed Physician Fee Schedule, CMS has listed the updated values for these codes as "interim" and has provided a 60-day period for comment. The only Federal Register publication regarding the Physician Fee Schedule since that time, which appeared on January 4, 2012, did not address this issue. Commercial Commercial sources include private health insurance as well as related payments for co-insurance and co-payments. We enter into contracts with private health insurance and other health benefit groups by granting discounts to such organizations in return for the patient volume they provide. Most of our commercial revenue is from managed care business and is attributable to contracts where a set fee is negotiated relative to services provided by our treatment centers. We do not have any contracts that individually represent over 10% of our total net patient service revenue. We receive our managed care contracted revenue under two primary arrangements. Approximately 98% of our managed care business is attributable to contracts where a fee schedule is negotiated for services provided at our treatment centers. Approximately 2% of our net patient service revenue is attributable to contracts where we bear utilization risk. Although the terms and conditions of our managed care contracts vary considerably, they are typically for a one-year term and provide for automatic renewals. If payments by managed care organizations and other private third-party payers decrease, then our total revenues and net income would decrease. Self Pay Self pay consists of payments for treatments by patients not otherwise covered by third-party payers, such as government or commercial sources. Because the incidence of cancer is much higher in those over the age of 65, most of our patients have access to Medicare or other insurance and therefore the self-pay portion of our business is less than it would be in other circumstances. We grant a discount on gross charges to self pay payers not covered under other third party payer arrangements. The discount amounts are excluded from patient service revenue. To the extent that we realize additional losses resulting from nonpayment of the discounted charges, such additional losses are included in the provision for doubtful accounts. Other Material Factors Other material factors that we believe will also impact our future financial performance include: •Patient volume and census; •Continued advances in technology and the related capital requirements; •Continued affiliation with physician specialties other than radiation oncology; •Changes in accounting for business combinations requiring that all acquisition-related costs be expensed as incurred; •Our ability to achieve identified cost savings and operational efficiencies; •Increased costs associated with development and optimization of our internal infrastructure; and •Healthcare reform. 62 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following summary results of operations data are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes and our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 For the year ended December 31, 2011, our total revenues grew by 18.5%, over the prior year, while our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 grew by 3.7% over the prior year. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had total revenues of $644.7 million, $544.0 million and $524.5 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, net patient service revenue comprised 99.1%, 98.5% and 98.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. In states where we employ radiation oncologists, we derive our net patient service revenue through fees earned from the provision of the professional and technical component fees of radiation therapy services. In states where we do not employ radiation oncologists, we derive our administrative services fees principally from administrative services agreements with professional corporations. As of December 31, 2011, we employed the physicians in 86 of our treatment centers and operated pursuant to administrative services agreements in 41 of our treatment centers. In accordance with ASC 810, we consolidate the operating results of certain of the professional corporations for which we provide administrative services into our own operating results. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 18.0%, 22.1% and 23.6%, respectively, of our net patient service revenue was generated by professional corporations with which we have administrative services agreements. In our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, revenue from the professional-only component of radiation therapy and revenue from the practices of medical specialties other than radiation oncology, comprised approximately 25.8%, 26.4%, and 24.8%, respectively, of our total revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, other revenue comprised approximately 0.9%, 1.5% and 1.3%, respectively, of our total revenues. Other revenue is primarily derived from management services provided to hospital radiation therapy departments, technical services provided to hospital radiation therapy departments, billing services provided to non-affiliated physicians, gain and losses from sale/disposal of medical equipment, equity interest in net earnings/losses of unconsolidated joint ventures and income for equipment leased by joint venture entities. 63 Table of Contents The following table summarizes key operating statistics of our results of operations for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, Domestic U.S. 2009 2010 % Change 2010 2011 % Change Number of treatment days 255 254 254 255 Total RVU's—freestanding centers 10,818,119 10,833,260 0.1 % 10,833,260 12,366,538 14.2 % RVU's per day—freestanding centers 42,424 42,651 0.5 % 42,651 48,496 13.7 % Percentage change in RVU's per day—freestanding centers—same practice basis 2.7 % (2.1 )% (2.1 )% 11.6 % Total treatments—freestanding centers 480,871 478,592 (0.4 )% 478,952 491,902 2.7 % Treatments per day—freestanding centers 1,886 1,886 0.0 % 1,886 1,929 2.3 % Percentage change in revenue per treatment—freestanding centers—same practice basis (0.3 )% 0.7 % 0.7 % 1.9 % Percentage change in treatments per day—freestanding centers—same practice basis (1.9 )% (4.3 )% (4.3 )% 0.4 % Number of regions at period end (global) 8 8 8 9 Number of local markets at period end 28 28 28 28 Treatment centers—freestanding (global) 90 89 (1.1 )% 89 118 32.6 % Treatment centers—hospital / other groups (global) 7 6 (14.3 )% 6 9 50.0 % 97 95 (2.1 )% 95 127 33.7 % Days sales outstanding at quarter end 44 41 41 39 Percentage change in freestanding revenues—same practice basis (3.1 )% (3.6 )% (3.6 )% 2.7 % Net patient service revenue—professional services only (in thousands) $ 129,909 $ 143,487 $ 143,487 $ 166,090 64 Table of Contents The following table summarizes key operating statistics of our results of operations for our international operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2010 and 2011: Three Months Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, International 2010* 2011 % Change 2010* 2011* % Change Number of treatments 2-D treatments 1,331 1,404 5,646 5,411 3-D treatments 1,634 1,875 6,010 6,888 IMRT treatments 319 453 1,047 1,478 Total 3,284 3,732 13.6 % 12,703 13,777 8.5 % *includes full period operating statistics, including period prior to our acquisition on March 1, 2011 International MDLLC's net patient service revenue increased $2.6 million, or 14.7%, from $17.7 million to $20.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2011. Total revenue was positively impacted by $1.0 million of revenue from the acquisition of four radiation treatment facilities in November 2011, and the opening of new treatment centers in San Juan, Argentina and San Salvador, El Salvador in February and March 2011, respectively. The continued ramp-up in operations at our Centro de Radiaciones de La Costa and Centro de Radioterapia Siglo XXI subsidiaries in Argentina which opened in May and July 2010, respectively also favorably impacted revenue growth. In addition, we experienced growth in the number of new patient treatments initiated during the quarter by 233 versus the September quarter and 448 versus the prior year's quarter, of which 250 pertained to the acquired operations in November 2011. The trend toward more clinically-advanced treatments continued during the quarter with an increase in the number of higher-revenue 3D and IMRT treatments. Facility gross profit increased $0.9 million, or 9.0% from $10.0 million to $10.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2011. Facility-level gross profit as a percentage of net patient service revenue decreased to 53.7% from 56.5%, primarily due to an increase in physician compensation, incremental depreciation expense relating to our continued growth and investment in Latin America, facility rent expense from our recent acquisition in Argentina, and expenses from the outsourcing of scans. 65 Table of Contents The following table presents summaries of results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 (dollars in thousands). This information has been derived from the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Years Ended December 31, (in thousands): 2009 2010 2011 Revenues: Net patient service revenue $ 517,646 98.7 % $ 535,913 98.5 % $ 638,690 99.1 % Other revenue 6,838 1.3 8,050 1.5 6,027 0.9 Total revenues 524,484 100.0 543,963 100.0 644,717 100.0 Salaries and benefits 259,532 49.5 282,302 51.9 326,782 50.7 Medical supplies 45,361 8.6 43,027 7.9 51,838 8.0 Facility rent expenses 22,106 4.2 27,885 5.1 33,375 5.2 Other operating expenses 24,398 4.7 27,103 5.0 33,992 5.3 General and administrative expenses 54,537 10.4 65,798 12.1 81,688 12.7 Depreciation and amortization 46,416 8.8 46,346 8.5 54,084 8.4 Provision for doubtful accounts 12,871 2.5 8,831 1.6 16,117 2.5 Interest expense, net 62,502 11.9 58,505 10.8 60,656 9.4 Loss on sale of assets of a radiation treatment center — — 1,903 0.3 — — Early extinguishment of debt — — 10,947 2.0 — — Impairment loss 3,474 0.7 97,916 18.0 360,639 55.9 Loss on investments — — — — 250 — Gain on fair value adjustment of previously held equity investment — — — — (234 ) — Loss on foreign currency transactions — — — — 106 — Loss on forward currency derivative contracts — — — — 672 0.1 Total expenses 531,197 101.3 670,563 123.2 1,019,965 158.2 Loss before income taxes (6,713 ) (1.3 ) (126,600 ) (23.2 ) (375,248 ) (58.2 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 1,002 (0.2 ) (12,810 ) (2.4 ) (25,365 ) (3.9 ) Net loss (7,715 ) (1.5 ) (113,790 ) (20.8 ) (349,883 ) (54.3 ) Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (1,835 ) (0.3 ) (1,698 ) (0.3 ) (3,558 ) (0.6 ) Net loss attributable to Radiation Therapy Services Holdings, Inc. shareholder $ (9,550 ) (1.8 )% $ (115,488 ) (21.1 )% $ (353,441 ) (54.9 )% Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 Total revenues. Total revenues increased by $100.7 million, or 18.5%, from $544.0 million in 2010 to $644.7 million in 2011. Total revenue was positively impacted by $98.7 million due to our expansion into new practices and treatments centers in existing local markets and new local markets during 2010 and 2011 through the acquisition of several urology, medical oncology and surgery practices in Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas, California and the acquisition of physician radiation practices in South Carolina, West Virginia, California, North Carolina and the acquisition of 30 physician practices in South America, Central America and the Caribbean, the opening of three de novo centers and an 66 Table of Contents outpatient radiation therapy management services agreement with a medical group to manage its radiation oncology treatment site and two hospital professional services arrangements as follows: Date Sites Location Market Type March 2010 1 El Segundo, California Los Angeles, California De Novo May 2010 1 Pembroke Pines, Florida Florida—East Coast De Novo May 2010 1 Myrtle Beach, South Carolina South Carolina Acquisition December 2010 1 Princeton West Virginia West Virginia Acquisition March 2011 26 South America, Central America and the Caribbean — Acquisition June 2011 1 London, Kentucky Kentucky Hospital-based / other groups August 2011 1 Andalusia, Alabama Alabama De Novo August 2011 1 Redding, California California Acquisition September 2011 2 Broward County—Florida Florida—East Coast Hospital-based / other groups November 2011 4 South America — Acquisition December 2011 2 Goldsboro and Sampson, North Carolina Eastern, North Carolina Acquisition Revenue from CMS for the 2011 PQRI program decreased approximately $2.5 million offset by an increase in our existing local markets and practices by approximately $4.5 million, net of a $1.6 million reduction relating to non-renewal of the capitated contracts in our Las Vegas, Nevada market. Expenses Salaries and benefits. Salaries and benefits increased by $44.5 million, or 15.8%, from $282.3 million in 2010 to $326.8 million in 2011. Salaries and benefits as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 51.9% in 2010 to 50.7% in 2011. Additional staffing of personnel and physicians due to our expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011 contributed $46.8 million to our salaries and benefits. Stock compensation expense included in our salaries and benefits increased $0.4 million as a result of a repurchase of vested units from an executive for use in future reissuance to other executives. For existing practices and centers within our local markets, salaries and benefits decreased $3.6 million, predominately related to our cost reduction program implemented during the third quarter of 2011 offset by additional staffing in our research and development group developing software for our medical equipment of approximately $0.9 million. Medical supplies. Medical supplies increased by $8.8 million, or 20.5%, from $43.0 million in 2010 to $51.8 million in 2011. Medical supplies as a percentage of total revenues increased from 7.9% in 2010 to 8.0% in 2011. Medical supplies consist of patient positioning devices, radioactive seed supplies, supplies used for other brachytherapy services, pharmaceuticals used in the delivery of radiation therapy treatments and chemotherapy-related and other medical supplies. Approximately $4.9 million of the increase was related to our expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011. In our remaining practices and centers in existing local markets, medical supplies increased by approximately $3.9 million as we continue to see stable and improving patient volumes and treatment counts in our existing local markets. These pharmaceuticals and chemotherapy medical supplies are principally reimbursable by third-party payers. Facility rent expenses. Facility rent expenses increased by $5.5 million, or 19.7%, from $27.9 million in 2010 to $33.4 million in 2011. Facility rent expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased from 5.1% in 2010 to 5.2% in 2011. Facility rent expenses consist of rent expense associated with our treatment center locations. Approximately $3.5 million of the increase was related to our 67 Table of Contents expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011. On March 31, 2010, the related party lessors completed the refinancing of certain of their respective mortgages to remove the personal guarantees of the debt related thereto. As a result of the refinancing of the landlords' mortgages on these respective properties, we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation. As a result of the derecognition, our facility rent expense increased by approximately $2.0 million in 2011. Other operating expenses. Other operating expenses increased by $6.9 million or 25.4%, from $27.1 million in 2010 to $34.0 million in 2011. Other operating expense as a percentage of total revenues increased from 5.0% in 2010 to 5.3% in 2011. Other operating expenses consist of repairs and maintenance of equipment, equipment rental and contract labor. Approximately $8.7 million of the increase was related to our expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011, offset by a decrease of approximately $1.8 million in our remaining practices and centers in existing local markets, primarily as a result of a decrease in operating leases on certain of our medical equipment and contract labor for radiation therapists. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $15.9 million or 24.1%, from $65.8 million in 2010 to $81.7 million in 2011. General and administrative expenses principally consist of professional service fees, office supplies and expenses, insurance and travel costs. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased from 12.1% in 2010 to 12.7% in 2011. The increase of $15.9 million in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase of approximately $9.6 million relating to our expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011. An increase of approximately $4.8 million in our remaining practices and treatments centers in our existing local markets, an increase of approximately $1.3 million in diligence costs relating to acquisitions and potential acquisitions of physician practices, an increase in costs of $0.7 million associated with improvements in our income tax provision process offset by a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in litigation settlements with certain physicians. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased by $7.7 million, or 16.7%, from $46.3 million in 2010 to $54.1 million in 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 8.5% in 2010 to 8.4% in 2011. The increase of $7.7 million in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to an increase of approximately $4.4 million relating to our expansion in urology and surgery practices in southwest Florida, Arizona, North and South Carolinas and California, the acquisitions of treatment centers in existing and new local markets during the latter part of 2010 and the expansion into a new region internationally in 2011. An increase in capital expenditures related to our investment in advanced radiation treatment technologies in certain local markets increased our depreciation and amortization by approximately $4.3 million, $0.9 million increase due to the amortization of our trade name offset by a decrease of approximately $1.5 million predominately due to the expiration of certain non-compete agreements. On March 31, 2010, we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation. As a result of the derecognition, our depreciation and amortization expense decreased by approximately $0.4 million. Provision for doubtful accounts. The provision for doubtful accounts increased by $7.3 million, or 82.5%, from $8.8 million in 2010 to $16.1 million in 2011. The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of total revenues increased from 1.6% in 2010 to 2.5% in 2011. In 2010 we reduced our provision for doubtful accounts as we made efforts to improve the overall collection process, including 68 Table of Contents a replacement of our claims clearinghouse agent, to provide more efficient and timely claims processing, upgraded certain billing processes, including the electronic transmission of secondary claims and improved processes at the treatment centers to collect co-pay amounts at the time of service. These actions have resulted in improved collections and lower bad debt expense in 2010. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, increased by $2.2 million, or 3.7%, from $58.5 million in 2010 to $60.7 million in 2011. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase of approximately $7.2 million of interest and fees as a result of the additional senior subordinated notes issued in April 2010 and March 2011 and the additional amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discount cost of approximately $1.2 million related thereto, and approximately $0.2 million of interest related to international debt, offset by the decrease of approximately $2.1 million in interest expense in 2010 associated with the pro-rata write-off of our deferred financing costs and original issue discount costs resulting from our prepayment of $74.8 million in our Term Loan B in April 2010, the derecognition of approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation on March 31, 2010. As a result of the derecognition, our interest expense relating to the finance obligation decreased by approximately $1.4 million. In addition, our interest rate swap payments decreased by approximately $2.9 million. Loss on sale of assets of a radiation treatment center. In January 2007, we acquired a 67.5% interest in Gettysburg Radiation, LLC ("GR"), which at that time was in the final stages of developing a free-standing radiation therapy treatment center in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Approximately a year later, GR expanded its operations to a second location in Littlestown, Pennsylvania. Due to the poor local economy, as well as the opening of a radiation therapy center by a nearby hospital, the performance of both the Gettysburg and Littlestown facilities deteriorated significantly. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Littlestown facility was closed. On April 30, 2010, we sold certain assets of the Gettysburg facility to one of GR's minority equity-holders for approximately $925,000 and incurred a loss on the sale of approximately $1.9 million. Early extinguishment of debt. In 2010 we incurred approximately $10.9 million from the early extinguishment of debt as a result of the prepayment of the $175.0 million in senior subordinated notes, which included the call premium payment of approximately $5.3 million, the write-offs of $2.5 million in deferred financing costs and $3.1 million in original issue discount costs. Impairment loss. During the third quarter of 2011, we completed an interim impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of our review of growth expectations and the release of the final rule issued on the physician fee schedule for 2012 by CMS on November 1, 2011, which included certain rate reductions on Medicare payments to freestanding radiation oncology providers. In performing this test, we assessed the implied fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets. During the third quarter of 2011 we incurred an impairment loss of approximately $237.6 million primarily relating to goodwill and trade name impairment in certain of our reporting units, including North East United States (New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and southeast Michigan), California, Southwest U.S. (Arizona and Nevada) , the Florida east coast, Northwest Florida and Southwest Florida of approximately $234.9 million and an impairment loss incurred of approximately $2.7 million in 2011 related to our write-off of our 45% investment interest in a radio-surgery center in Rhode Island due to continued operating losses since its inception in 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we decided to rebrand our current trade name of 21st Century Oncology. As a result of the rebranding initiative and concurrent with our annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we incurred an impairment loss of approximately $121.6 million. Approximately $49.8 million of the $121.6 million related to the trade name impairment as a result of our rebranding initiative. The remaining $71.8 million of impairment related to goodwill in certain of our reporting units, including North East United States, (New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and southeast Michigan), and California, Southwest U.S. (Arizona and Nevada). The 69 Table of Contents remaining domestic U.S. trade name of approximately $4.6 million will be amortized over its remaining useful life through December 31, 2012. We incurred approximately $0.9 million in amortization expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, we impaired certain deposits on equipment of approximately $0.7 million and $0.8 million in leasehold improvements relating to a planned radiation treatment facility office closing in Baltimore, Maryland. Loss on investments. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we incurred a loss on our 50% investment in an unconsolidated joint venture in a freestanding radiation facility in West Palm Beach Florida. We plan on withdrawing from the joint venture during the first quarter of 2012. As a result, we incurred a loss on our investment of approximately $0.5 million. The loss on our investment in the joint venture was offset by a gain on the sale of an investment in a primary care physician practice of approximately $0.3 million. Proceeds from the sale of the investment was approximately $1.0 million. Gain on fair value adjustment of previously held equity investment. As result of the acquisition of MDLLC, in which we acquired an effective ownership interest of approximately 91.0% on March 1, 2011, we recorded a gain of approximately $0.2 million to adjust our initial investment in the joint venture to fair value. Loss on forward currency derivative contracts. We are exposed to a significant amount of foreign exchange risk, primarily between the U.S. dollar and the Argentine peso. This exposure relates to the provision of radiation oncology services to patients at our Latin American operations and purchases of goods and services in foreign currencies. We maintain four forward currency derivative contracts which mature on a quarterly basis. In 2011, the expiration of four forward currency derivative contracts and the mark to market valuation of the remaining contracts resulted in a loss of approximately $0.7 million. Income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 6.8% in fiscal 2011 and 10.1% in fiscal 2010. The decrease in the benefit reflected in the effective tax rate in the 2011 calendar year is primarily the result of goodwill impairment recognized in the 2011 calendar year which is not deductible for tax purposes, the increase in the valuation allowance against federal and state deferred tax assets and adjustments to deferred income tax items and unrecognized tax positions that were recorded in the 2011 calendar year. The income tax benefit of $25.4 million in 2011 compared to an income tax benefit of $12.8 million in 2010, represents an increase of $12.6 million on an absolute dollar basis. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the relative mix of taxable income and taxable loss jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. We monitor the assumptions used in estimating the annual effective tax rate and make adjustments, if required, throughout the year. If actual results differ from the assumptions used in estimating our annual effective tax rates, future income tax expense (benefit) could be materially affected. In addition, we are periodically under audit by federal, state, or local authorities in the areas of income taxes and other taxes. These audits include questioning the timing and amount of deductions and compliance with federal, state, and local tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from these audits to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. To the extent we prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or is required to pay amounts in excess of such accruals, the effective tax rate could be materially affected. We are currently undergoing a Federal income tax audit for tax years 2007 through 2008 and New York State audit for tax years 2006 through 2008. Subsequent to the end of the year, we closed the Federal audit for tax years 2005 and 2006, the Alabama audit for tax years 2009 and 2010 and Florida audit for tax years 2007 through 2009. Net loss. Net loss increased by $236.1 million, from $113.8 million in net loss in 2010 to $349.9 million net loss in 2011 primarily as a result of the impairment loss incurred for the write down of 70 Table of Contents goodwill, trade name and other investments of approximately $360.6 million. Net loss represents 20.8% of total revenues in 2010 and 54.3% of total revenues in 2011. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2010 Total revenues. Total revenues increased by $19.5 million, or 3.7%, from $524.5 million in 2009 to $544.0 million in 2010. Total revenue was positively impacted by $45.5 million due to our expansion into new practices and treatment centers in existing local markets and new local markets during 2009 and 2010 through the acquisition of several urology, medical oncology and surgery practices in Florida and Arizona, and the acquisition of a physician practice in South Carolina, the opening of nine de novo centers, the transition of one hospital-based arrangement to freestanding and the acquisition of two centers as follows: Date Sites Location Market Type January 2009 1 Hammonton, New Jersey South New Jersey De Novo January 2009 1 Indio, California Palm Springs, California De Novo January 2009 1 Bronx, New York Westchester/Bronx—New York Transition to Freestanding May 2009 1 Fort Myers, Florida Lee County—Florida De Novo June 2009 1 Southbridge, Massachusetts Central Massachusetts De Novo June 2009 1 Gilbert, Arizona Central Arizona De Novo July 2009 1 Providence, Rhode Island Rhode Island De Novo October 2009 1 Yucca Valley, California Palm Springs, California De Novo March 2010 1 El Segundo, California Los Angeles, California De Novo May 2010 1 Pembroke Pines, Florida Florida East Coast De Novo May 2010 1 Myrtle Beach, South Carolina South Carolina Acquisition December 2010 1 Princeton West Virginia West Virginia Acquisition Approximately $6.2 million of the increase was due to recognition of additional reimbursement from CMS. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 required the establishment of a physician quality reporting system, including an incentive payment for eligible professionals who satisfactorily report data on quality measures for covered professional services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. The program under the Medicare system is known as the Physician Quality Reporting Initiative ("PQRI"). We received $3.2 million in payments from CMS for the 2009 claims and data submitted for the PQRI program and expect to receive approximately $3.0 million for the 2010 PQRI program. Offsetting the increases from expansion into new practices and the PQRI program, was a $36.7 million decline in revenue due to decreases in volume and pricing in our existing local markets. The volume decrease was predominantly in certain local markets in Florida, Michigan, Las Vegas and Arizona. The declines in Las Vegas and Arizona were predominately related to certain office consolidations and transitions of new physicians covering these markets that impacted our patient volume. In addition to the PQRI and volume items noted above, during the third quarter of 2009 total revenues were reduced by an increase in contractual allowances of approximately $4.5 million offset by a corresponding decrease in bad debt allowance for the final assessment of our accounts receivable balances within our billing system. In addition, during the current year, we strategically reallocated a number of radiation therapy treatment machines in certain of our local markets in order to meet anticipated demand patterns. During this large scale reorganization, treatment volumes experienced a delay as the machines were being reallocated to new facilities. A portion of the decline in treatment volumes during the current year was due to the machine reallocation, although we continued to experience lower volumes in certain markets as a result of the challenging economic environment. 71 Table of Contents Salaries and benefits. Salaries and benefits increased by $22.8 million, or 8.8%, from $259.5 million in 2009 to $282.3 million in 2010. Salaries and benefits as a percentage of total revenues increased from 49.5% in 2009 to 51.9% in 2010. The increase of $22.8 million included $7.6 million of physician contracting expenses as result of reassessing certain urology and medical oncology physician groups' compensation arrangements. Additional staffing of personnel and physicians due to our expansion in certain practices in southwest Florida and Arizona and acquisitions of treatment centers in existing local markets during the latter part of 2009 and in 2010 contributed $23.3 million to our increase in salaries and benefits. Salaries and benefits decreased $8.1 million in our existing practices and centers within our local markets. The decrease in our existing local markets was due to the reduction of physician compensation as a result of our revenue declines as well as cost-cutting initiatives implemented during the second half of 2009. Medical supplies. Medical supplies decreased by $2.4 million, or 5.1%, from $45.4 million in 2009 to $43.0 million in 2010. Medical supplies as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 8.6% in 2009 to 7.9% in 2010. Approximately $4.3 million was related to our expansion into new practices and centers in existing local markets during 2009 and 2010, offset by an approximately $6.7 million decrease in our remaining practices and centers in existing local markets primarily due to cost savings efforts to reduce the per unit costs of medical supplies, including pharmaceuticals used in connection with the delivery of radiation therapy treatments, pharmaceuticals used in urology services, and chemotherapy-related medical supplies as well as a result of the decline in services. Facility rent expenses. Facility rent expenses increased by $5.8 million, or 26.1%, from $22.1 million in 2009 to $27.9 million in 2010. Facility rent expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased from 4.2% in 2009 to 5.1% in 2010. Facility rent expenses consist of rent expense associated with our treatment center locations. Approximately $3.7 million of the increase was related to our expansion in new practices and centers in existing local markets. On March 31, 2010, the related party lessors completed the refinancing of certain of their respective mortgages to remove the personal guarantees of the debt related thereto. As a result, of the refinancing of the landlords' mortgages on these respective properties we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation. As a result of the derecognition, our facility rent expense increased by approximately $2.1 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. Other operating expenses. Other operating expenses increased by $2.7 million or 11.1%, from $24.4 million in 2009 to $27.1 million in 2010. Other operating expense as a percentage of total revenues increased from 4.7% in 2009 to 5.0% in 2010. Other operating expenses consist of repairs and maintenance of equipment, equipment rental and contract labor. Approximately $2.7 million of the increase was related to our expansion in new practices and centers in existing local markets. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $11.3 million or 20.6%, from $54.5 million in 2009 to $65.8 million in 2010. General and administrative expenses principally consist of professional service fees, office supplies and expenses, insurance and travel costs. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased from 10.4% in 2009 to 12.1% in 2010. The increase of $11.3 million in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase of approximately $3.2 million relating to the growth in the number of new practices and treatment centers in our existing local markets, an increase of approximately $2.8 million related to litigation settlements with certain physicians, an increase of approximately $2.9 million in our remaining practices and treatment centers in our existing local markets including professional services relating to our remediation of a material weakness of approximately $0.3 million and an increase of approximately $2.4 million in diligence costs relating to acquisitions of radiation oncology practices in South Carolina, West Virginia and several urology practices and potential acquisitions of physician practices, including diligence costs associated with the MDLLC Acquisition in 2011. 72 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization remained unchanged at $46.4 million in 2009 and 2010. Depreciation and amortization expense as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 8.8% in 2009 to 8.5% in 2010. An increase in capital expenditures related to our investment in advanced radiation treatment technologies in certain local markets increased our depreciation and amortization by approximately $2.4 million, offset by a decrease of approximately $1.6 million predominately due to the expiration of certain non-compete agreements. On March 31, 2010, we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation. As a result of the derecognition, our depreciation and amortization expense decreased by approximately $0.8 million. Provision for doubtful accounts. The provision for doubtful accounts decreased by $4.1 million, or 31.4%, from $12.9 million in 2009 to $8.8 million in 2010. The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 2.5% in 2009 to 1.6% in 2010. In the latter part of 2009, we made efforts to improve the overall collection process, including a replacement of our claims clearinghouse agent, to provide more efficient and timely claims processing, upgraded certain billing processes, including the electronic transmission of secondary claims and improved processes at the treatment centers to collect co-pay amounts at the time of service. These actions have resulted in improved collections and lower bad debt expense. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income of approximately $0.6 million, decreased by $4.0 million, or 6.4%, from $62.5 million in 2009 to $58.5 million in 2010. The decrease is primarily attributable to a pay down of approximately $15 million in our senior secured revolving credit facility during the fourth quarter of 2009, along with amortization of our senior secured term loan facility during 2010, principal payments of our capital leases and the refinancing of our debt in April 2010 by replacing the $175.0 million senior subordinated notes due March 2015 at an interest rate of 13.5% with senior subordinated notes due April 2017 at an interest rate of 9.875%. In addition, we incurred an additional $2.1 million in interest expense associated with the pro-rata write-off of our deferred financing costs and original issue discount costs resulting from our prepayment of $74.8 million in our Term Loan B. On March 31, 2010, we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation. As a result of the derecognition, our interest expense relating to the finance obligation decreased by approximately $4.3 million. Loss on sale of assets of a radiation treatment center. In January 2007, we acquired a 67.5% interest in Gettysburg Radiation, LLC (GR), which at that time was in the final stages of developing a free-standing radiation therapy treatment center in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Approximately a year later, GR expanded its operations to a second location in Littlestown, Pennsylvania. Due to the poor local economy, as well as the opening of a radiation therapy center by a nearby hospital, the performance of both the Gettysburg and Littlestown facilities deteriorated significantly. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Littlestown facility was closed. On April 30, 2010, we sold certain assets of the Gettysburg facility to one of GR's minority equity-holders for approximately $925,000 and incurred a loss on the sale of approximately $1.9 million. Early extinguishment of debt. We incurred approximately $10.9 million from the early extinguishment of debt as a result of the prepayment of the $175.0 million in senior subordinated notes, which included the call premium payment of approximately $5.3 million, write-offs of $2.5 million in deferred financing costs and $3.1 million in original issue discount costs. Impairment loss. Impairment loss of approximately $3.5 million in 2009 primarily relating to an impairment loss incurred of approximately $1.8 million for the write down to fair value of certain of our linear accelerators and CT machines due to technological obsolescence. The adjustment to machine inventories was due to several considerations, including the planned use of RapidArc technology on 3-D digital machines for which this technology can not be implemented on 2-D digital machines or analog machines. RapidArc radiotherapy technology is an effective cancer treatment representing an 73 Table of Contents advanced new form of image-guided IMRT. This technology enables clinicians to program a linear accelerator to deliver precise forms of IMRT up to eight times faster than other IMRT systems. It does this by delivering the complete IMRT treatment to the patient in fewer rotations than traditional IMRT. Impairment loss of approximately $97.9 million in 2010 related to our write-off of our investment in a 50% interest in an international freestanding radiation center in Mohali, India of approximately $0.7 million, certain planned office closings in California and Michigan of approximately $3.5 million and goodwill impairment in certain of our reporting units, including California, Southwest U.S. (Arizona and Nevada) and the Florida east coast of approximately $91.2 million and an additional $2.5 million relating to the office closings of certain of our radiation treatment centers. Income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 10.1% in fiscal 2010 and (14.9%) in fiscal 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate in the 2010 calendar year is primarily the result of goodwill impairment recognized in the 2010 calendar year which is not deductible for tax purposes, the establishment of a valuation allowance against federal and state deferred tax assets and adjustments to deferred income tax items and unrecognized tax positions that were recorded in the 2010 calendar year. The income tax benefit $12.8 million in 2010 compared to an income tax expense of $1.0 million in 2009, represents an increase of $13.8 million on an absolute dollar basis. The effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% during 2010 primarily as a result of the effect of the goodwill impairment which is not deductible for tax purposes and the establishment of a valuation allowance against federal deferred tax assets and an increase in the valuation allowance related to state deferred tax assets. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the relative mix of taxable income and taxable loss jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. We monitor the assumptions used in estimating the annual effective tax rate and makes adjustments, if required, throughout the year. If actual results differ from the assumptions used in estimating our annual effective tax rates, future income tax expense (benefit) could be materially affected. In addition, we are periodically under audit by federal, state, or local authorities in the areas of income taxes and other taxes. These audits include questioning the timing and amount of deductions and compliance with federal, state, and local tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from these audits to determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. To the extent that we prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or we are required to pay amounts in excess of such accruals, the effective tax rate could be materially affected. Net loss. Net loss increased by $106.1 million, from $7.7 million in net loss in 2009 to $113.8 million net loss in 2010. Net loss represents 1.5% and 20.8% of total revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal capital requirements are for working capital, acquisitions, medical equipment replacement and expansion and de novo treatment center development. Working capital and medical equipment are funded through cash from operations, supplemented, as needed, by five-year fixed rate lease lines of credit. Borrowings under these lease lines of credit are recorded on our balance sheets. The construction of de novo treatment centers is generally funded directly by related party lessors and then leased to us. We finance our operations, capital expenditures and acquisitions through a combination of borrowings and cash generated from operations. 74 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 was $71.4 million, $49.0 million and $44.8 million, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $4.2 million from $49.0 million in 2010 to $44.8 million in 2011 predominately due to timing and amount of interest payments. In 2011 we issued an additional $66.25 million in senior subordinated notes due 2017 with interest payments due in April and October of each year. In October 2011, we paid approximately $18.6 million of interest on the $360.0 million in senior subordinated notes due 2017 including interest on the $16.25 million senior subordinated notes due to the seller in the MDLLC transaction. In 2011, we wrote-off approximately $360.6 million in goodwill, trade name, leasehold improvements and other investments as a result of our interim testing of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and our rebranding initiatives. We continue to see improvements in our cash collections from our accounts receivable with our days sales outstanding improving from 41 days to 39 days. Cash at December 31, 2011 held by our foreign subsidiaries was $5.2 million. We consider these cash flows to be permanently invested in our foreign subsidiaries and therefore do not anticipate repatriating any excess cash flows to the U.S. We anticipate we can adequately fund our domestic operations from cash flows generated solely from our U.S. business. Of the $5.2 million of cash held by our foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2011, $0.4 million is held in U.S. Dollars, $0.1 million of which is held at banks in the United States, with the remaining held in foreign currencies in foreign banks. We believe that the magnitude of our growth opportunities outside of the U.S. will cause us to continuously reinvest foreign earnings. We do not require access to the earnings and cash flow of our international subsidiaries to fund our U.S. operations. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $22.4 million from $71.4 million in 2009 to $49.0 million in 2010. The decrease in cash was predominately due to the refinancing in April 2010, whereby we paid cash from operations, accrued and unpaid interest of approximately $14.9 million on the senior subordinated notes due April 2017 in October 2010. With respect to our prior senior subordinated notes due in 2015 accrued and unpaid interest was paid semi-annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year. In addition, we received approximately $10.8 million in tax refunds in 2009 compared to payments of approximately $0.4 million in 2010. The Company made net tax payments of $.4 million in US and State taxes and $5.4 million in foreign taxes. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2009, 2010, and 2011 was $54.2 million, $92.5 million, and $96.8 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $4.3 million from $92.5 million in 2010 to $96.8 million in 2011. Net cash used in investing activities was impacted by approximately $42.1 million (net of acquired cash of approximately $5.4 million) related to the purchase of the remaining (i) 67% interest in a joint venture that holds a majority equity interest in and manages 25 radiation therapy treatment centers in South America, Central America and the Caribbean (including the purchase of equity units in the underlying operating subsidiaries) and (ii) a 61% interest in a joint venture that operates a treatment center in Guatemala, on March 1, 2011, the purchase of a radiation therapy treatment center and a physician group practice in Northern California for approximately $9.6 million and the purchase of other physician practices of approximately $0.2 million in North Carolina and Florida. In May 2010 we purchased a radiation treatment center and several physician practices in South Carolina for a combined purchase price of approximately $34.5 million. Additional acquisition during the fourth quarter included the purchase of four radiation treatment facilities in Argentina for approximately $6.8 million including cash of approximately $2.1 million and the purchase of two radiation treatment facilities in North Carolina in December, 2011 for approximately $6.3 million. 75 Table of Contents During 2011, we entered into foreign exchange option contracts expiring at the end of the four consecutive quarterly periods to convert a significant portion of our forecasted foreign currency denominated net income into U.S. dollars to limit the adverse impact of a weakening Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar. The cost of the option contracts, were approximately $1.5 million. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $38.3 million from $54.2 million in 2009 to $92.5 million in 2010. Net cash used in investing activities was impacted by approximately $10.4 million related to the purchase of (i) a 33% interest in MDLLC, a joint venture that holds a majority equity interest in and manages 26 radiation therapy treatment centers in South America and Central America and (ii) a 19% interest in a joint venture that operates a treatment center in Guatemala, both of which occurred in January 2009. In May 2010 we purchased a radiation treatment center and several physician practices in South Carolina for a combined purchase price of approximately $34.5 million, in cash, and purchased a radiation treatment center in Princeton West Virginia in December 2010 for approximately $8.0 million, in cash. In December 2010, we contributed an initial $1.0 million for a 28.5% interest in a proton beam therapy joint venture with a consortium of five leading New York academic medical centers to be constructed in Manhattan. Historically, our capital expenditures have been primarily for equipment, leasehold improvements and information technology equipment. Total capital expenditures, inclusive of amounts financed through capital lease arrangements, outstanding accounts payable relating to the acceptance and delivery of medical equipment and exclusive of the purchase of radiation treatment centers, were $37.5 million, $43.8 million and $41.3 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and borrowings under lease lines of credit. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for 2009 was $33.4 million and net cash provided by financing activities for 2010 and 2011 was $24.5 million and $48.2 million, respectively. In January 2011, we received the Commitment Letter from DDJ Capital Management, LLC to purchase an aggregate principal amount of $50 million of 97/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 to be issued by RTS. On March 1, 2011, we issued $50 million of the new notes. The proceeds of $48.5 million were used (i) to fund the MDLLC Acquisition and (ii) to fund transaction costs associated with the MDLLC Acquisition. We incurred approximately $1.6 million in transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses in connection with the new notes, and an initial purchasers' discount of $0.6 million. On April 1, 2011 we received approximately $6.7 million in capital lease financing from a financial institution to fund previously purchased medical equipment. The terms of the capital lease financing are for five years at an average interest rate of approximately 8%. We also had partnership distributions from non-controlling interests of approximately $3.2 million and $4.4 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. On September 29, 2011, we amended our senior secured credit facility. Under the terms of the amendment, the definition of applicable margin was modified, along with financial covenant levels and several modification to the permitted investment baskets and permitted indebtedness. The amendment also extended the revolving credit facility maturity by one year solely for the extended revolving loans, such that they will mature on February 21, 2014, whereas the non-extended revolving loans will continue to mature on February 21, 2013. As a result of the amendment, we paid down approximately $18.0 million in our Revolver loans and incurred approximately $1.3 million in transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses in connection with the amendment. On September 30, 2011, we entered into an incremental amendment with a financial institution which agreed to lend an aggregate amount up to $50 million, which will be used for general corporate purposes. As a result of the incremental amendment, we incurred approximately $1.7 million in 76 Table of Contents transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses in connection with the incremental amendment. In November, 2011, we registered approximately $16.25 million in notes and incurred approximately $0.2 million in transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 included $308.1 million of proceeds received from the issuance of $310.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2017. The $308.1 million in proceeds was used to repay the existing $175.0 million in senior subordinated notes due 2015, including accrued and unpaid interest and a call premium of approximately $5.3 million. The remaining proceeds from the offering were used to pay down $74.8 million of the senior secured term loan facility and $10.0 million of the senior secured revolving credit facility and to finance the acquisitions of a radiation treatment center and physician practices in South Carolina, which were consummated on May 3, 2010. In addition, we paid approximately $11.9 million of loan costs relating to transaction fees and expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the $310.0 million senior subordinated notes. We borrowed approximately $8.5 million in December 2010 for the purchase of a radiation treatment center in Princeton West Virginia. Further, we paid approximately $0.9 million in fees and expenses related to our S-4 registration statement filing for the Existing Notes. The change in net cash provided by financing activities included cash provided by non-controlling interest holders in the El Segundo joint venture who contributed approximately $0.6 million in cash for a 22.75% interest in the joint venture. We also had partnership distributions from non-controlling interests of approximately $3.2 million in 2010. Net cash used in financing activities for 2009 was approximately $33.4 million. Of the cash used in financing, approximately $29.7 million related to principal repayments of debt, including $3.5 million on our senior secured term loan facility, $15.0 million on our senior secured revolving credit facility and approximately $11.2 million for capital lease obligations. In addition we had partnership distributions from non-controlling interests of approximately $2.9 million in 2009. Senior Secured Credit Facilities and Senior Subordinated Notes In connection with the 2008 Merger, we entered into our current senior secured credit facilities, which consists of a senior secured term loan facility and a senior secured revolving credit facility. At the Closing, we borrowed $307.0 million under the senior secured term loan facility, utilized $3.1 million of the senior secured revolving credit facility and obtained a $175.0 million senior subordinated interim loan agreement. We incurred expenses of approximately $3.7 million for early extinguishment of debt relating to the termination of certain capital lease obligations, termination of our interest rate swap agreement and the write-off of deferred financing costs relating to the extinguishment of our previous senior secured credit facility. On March 25, 2008, we issued $175.0 million senior subordinated notes due 2015 at an annual interest rate of 13.5%, and repaid the $175.0 million senior subordinated interim loan agreement including any accrued and unpaid interest. On April 1, 2010, we amended our senior secured credit facility to, among other things, (i) under certain circumstances, allow us to issue permitted additional subordinated debt to fund certain future acquisitions; (ii) disregard, for purposes of calculating compliance with the financial covenants, certain provisions of GAAP that would require us to treat leased properties as owned by us; and (iii) provide for certain other modifications to permit the incurrence of additional indebtedness in connection with certain future acquisitions and the ability to make additional investments, subject to pro forma compliance with certain performance-based incurrence covenants, and other restrictions. 77 Table of Contents On April 20, 2010, we consummated a debt offering ("Offering") in an aggregate principal amount of $310.0 million of 97/8% senior subordinated notes due 2017, and repaid our existing $175.0 million in aggregate principal amount 13.5% senior subordinated notes due 2015, including accrued and unpaid interest of approximately $6.4 million and the call premium of approximately $5.3 million. The remaining proceeds from the Offering were used to pay down $74.8 million of the Term Loan B and $10.0 million of the Revolver. A portion of the proceeds of the Offering was placed in a restricted account pending application to finance certain acquisitions, including the acquisitions of a radiation treatment center and physician practices in South Carolina, which were consummated on May 3, 2010. We incurred approximately $11.9 million in transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses in connection with the Offering, including the initial purchasers' discount of $1.9 million. We incurred approximately $10.9 million in early extinguishment of debt as a result of the prepayment of the $175.0 million in senior subordinated notes, which included the call premium payment of approximately $5.3 million, the write-offs of $2.5 million in deferred financing costs and $3.1 million in original issue discount costs. On April 22, 2010, affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers of the $310.0 million in aggregate principal amount 97/8% senior subordinated notes due 2017, as lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility, provided an additional $15.0 million of commitments to the revolving credit portion of our senior secured credit facility increasing the available commitment from $60.0 million to $75.0 million. We paid $2.0 million to Vestar Capital Partners V, L.P. for additional transaction advisory services in respect to the incremental amendments to our existing senior secured revolving credit facility, the additional $15.0 million of commitments to the revolver portion, and the complete refinancing of the senior subordinated notes. On May 3, 2010, we entered into Amendment No. 3 to our senior secured credit facilities, dated February 21, 2008 (as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated August 15, 2008, Amendment No. 2, dated April 1, 2010, Incremental Amendments dated April 22, 2010, Amendment No. 3, dated May 3, 2010, and as otherwise amended from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), by and among the Company, RTS, the subsidiaries of RTS identified therein as the guarantors, the institutions from time to time party thereto as lenders, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (as successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association), in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders thereto and the other agents and arrangers named therein, pursuant to which we revised certain administrative matters, including to permit us to provide to the lenders thereunder the consolidated financial statements of Parent, in lieu of those of the borrower, RTS. Our senior secured credit facilities: •is secured by a pledge of substantially all our tangible and intangible assets, including accounts receivable, inventory and capital stock of its existing and future subsidiaries, and requires that borrowings and other amounts due under it will be guaranteed by its existing and future subsidiaries; •requires us to make mandatory prepayments of outstanding borrowings, with a corresponding reduction in the maximum amount of borrowings available under the senior secured credit facility, with net proceeds from insurance recoveries and asset sales, and with the net proceeds from the issuance of equity or debt securities, subject to specified exceptions; •includes a number of restrictive covenants including, among other things, limitations on leverage, capital and acquisitions expenditures, and requirements that we maintain minimum ratios of cash flow to interest; •limits our ability to pay dividends on its capital stock; and 78 Table of Contents •contains customary events of default, including an event of default upon a change in control. The senior secured credit facility requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including: Requirement Level at December 31, 2011 Maximum permitted consolidated leverage ratio <6.00 to 1.00 5.27 to 1.00 Minimum permitted consolidated interest coverage ratio >2.00 to 1.00 2.29 to 1.00 The maximum permitted consolidated leverage ratio required is <6.00 to 1.00 from July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, <5.75 to 1.00 from January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2012, <5.50 to 1.00 from July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013 and <5.25 to 1.00 thereafter. The minimum permitted consolidated interest coverage ratio required is >2.00 to 1.00 through June 30, 2012, >2.05 to 1.00 from July 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, >2.10 to 1.00 from January 1, 2013 to June 30, 2013 and >2.20 to 1.00 thereafter. The senior secured credit facility also requires that we comply with various other covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on new indebtedness, asset sales, capital expenditures, acquisitions and dividends, with which we were in compliance as of December 31, 2011. In January 2011, we received the Commitment Letter from DDJ Capital Management, LLC to purchase an aggregate principal amount of $50 million of 97/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 to be issued by RTS. On March 1, 2011, we issued $50 million of the New Notes. The proceeds of $48.5 million were used (i) to fund the MDLLC Acquisition and (ii) to fund transaction costs associated with the MDLLC Acquisition. We incurred approximately $1.6 million in transaction fees and expenses, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses in connection with the new notes, and an initial purchasers' discount of $0.6 million. On April 1, 2011, we received approximately $6.7 million in capital lease financing from a financial institution to fund previously purchased medical equipment. The terms of the capital lease financing are for five years at an average interest rate of approximately 8%. In August 2011, we entered into a lease line of credit with a financial institution for the purpose of obtaining financing for medical equipment purchases in the commitment amount of $12.5 million. The commitment, subject to various restrictions, is scheduled to be available through November 2011. As of December 31, 2011 we had utilized approximately $8.7 million under the lease line of credit. On September 29, 2011, we amended our senior secured credit facility. Under the terms of the amendment, the definition of Applicable Margin was modified to increase the rate on both the senior secured term loan and extended revolving loans under the revolving credit facility provided for under the senior secured credit facility by 50 basis points. Both the senior secured term loan and amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility will now bear interest based (i) with respect to extended revolving loans and the senior secured term loans, on either (A) LIBOR plus a spread of 475 basis points, or (B) the ABR plus a spread of 375 basis points, and (ii) with respect to non-extended revolving loans, on either (A) LIBOR plus a spread of 425 basis points, or (B) the ABR plus a spread of 325 basis points, in each case depending on whether the Company elects Eurodollar loans or ABR loans, respectively. The amendment also extended the revolving credit facility maturity by one year solely for the extended revolving loans, such that they will mature on February 21, 2014, whereas the non-extended revolving loans will continue to mature on February 21, 2013. The amendment modified the financial covenant levels, including to modify (x) the total leverage ratio to 6.00 to 1.00 for the Company's fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2011 and December 31, 79 Table of Contents 2011, decreasing thereafter as specified therein, and (y) the consolidated interest coverage ratio to 2.00 to 1.00 for the Company's fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 through June 30, 2012 and increasing thereafter as specified therein. The amendment also made several modifications to the permitted investments baskets, the permitted indebtedness baskets and several definitions in the senior secured credit facility. On September 30, 2011, we entered into an incremental amendment (the "Incremental Amendment") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders and SunTrust Bank, as incremental lender. The Incremental Amendment amends the senior secured credit facility. Under the terms of the Incremental Amendment, SunTrust Bank agreed to lend an aggregate amount up to $50 million, which will be used for general corporate purposes. We believe available borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, together with our cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to fund our currently anticipated operating requirements. To the extent available borrowings and cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund future requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing through additional increases in our senior secured credit facilities, negotiate additional credit facilities with other lenders or institutions or seek additional capital through private placements or public offerings of equity or debt securities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to extend or increase our senior secured credit facilities, secure additional bank borrowings or lease line of credit or complete additional debt or equity financings on terms favorable to us or at all. Our ability to meet our funding needs could be adversely affected if we experience a decline in our results of operations, or if we violate the covenants and other restrictions to which we are subject under our senior secured credit facilities. Finance Obligation We lease certain of our treatment centers (each, a "facility" and, collectively, the "facilities") and other properties from partnerships that are majority-owned by related parties (each, a "related party lessor" and, collectively, the "related party lessors"). See "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions." The related party lessors construct the facilities in accordance with our plans and specifications and subsequently lease these facilities to us. Due to the related party relationship, we are considered the owner of these facilities during the construction period pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840-40, "Sale-Leaseback Transactions" ("ASC 840-40"). In accordance with ASC 840-40, we record a construction in progress asset for these facilities with a corresponding finance obligation during the construction period. These related parties guarantee the debt of the related party lessors, which is considered to be "continuing involvement" pursuant to ASC 840-40. Accordingly, these leases did not qualify as a normal sale-leaseback at the time that construction was completed and these facilities were leased to us. As a result, the costs to construct the facilities and the related finance obligation are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets after construction was completed. The construction costs are included in "Real Estate Subject to Finance Obligation" in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the accompanying notes, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The finance obligation is amortized over the lease during the construction period term based on the payments designated in the lease agreements. As of March 31, 2010, the related party lessors completed the refinancing of certain of their respective mortgages to remove the personal guarantees of the debt related thereto. As a result, we derecognized approximately $64.8 million in real estate subject to finance obligation, $67.7 million in finance obligation and recorded approximately $2.9 million of deferred gains that will be amortized as a reduction of rent expense over 15 years. In addition, we entered into a new master lease arrangement with the landlord on 28 properties. The initial term of the master lease is 15 years with four 5 year renewal options. Annual payments, including executory costs, total approximately $13.4 million pursuant to the master lease. The lease payments are scheduled to increase annually based on increases in the 80 Table of Contents consumer price index. During 2011 the related party lessors completed construction of 