Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, in evaluating our company and our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on payments from government Medicare and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid programs for a significant amount of our revenue. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes that result in reimbursement reductions. Our payer mix is concentrated with Medicare patients due to the high proportion of cancer patients over the age of 65. We estimate that approximately 48%, 48% and 45% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, consisted of payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Only a small percentage of that revenue resulted from Medicaid payment. These government programs generally reimburse us on a fee-for-service basis based on predetermined government reimbursement rate schedules. As a result of these reimbursement schedules, we are limited in the amount we can record as revenue for our services from these government programs. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") can change these schedules and therefore the prices that the agency pays for these services. In addition, if our operating costs increase, we will not be able to recover these costs from government payers. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement for Medicare reimbursement. Various state Medicaid programs also have recently reduced Medicaid payments to providers based on state budget reductions. Although Medicaid reimbursement encompasses only a small portion of our business, there can be no certainty as to whether Medicaid reimbursement will increase or decrease in the future and what affect, if any, this will have on our business. In the final Medicare 2013 Physician Fee Schedule, CMS reduced payments for radiation oncology by 7 percent. This reduction relates to (1) the fourth year of the four-year transition to the utilization of new Physician Practice Information Survey (PPIS) data, (2) a change in equipment interest rate assumptions, (3) budget neutrality effects of a proposal to create a new discharge care management code, (4) input changes for certain radiation therapy procedures, and (5) certain other revised radiation oncology codes. The largest of these changes (accounting for 4 percent of the gross reduction) reflects the transition of the final 25 percent of PPIS data used in the Practice Expense Relative Value Unit (PERVU) methodology. The change in the CMS interest rate policy (accounting for 3 percent of the gross reduction) reduces interest rate assumptions in the CMS database from 11 percent to a sliding scale of 5.5 percent to 8 percent. CMS also is finalizing its proposal to create a HCPCS G-code to describe transition care management from a hospital or other institutional stay to a primary physician in the community (accounting for 1 percent of the gross reduction). While this policy benefits primary care, non-primary care physicians are impacted due to the budget-neutrality of the PFS. The rule also makes adjustments (accounting for 1 percent of the gross reduction) due to the use of new time of care assumptions for intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). Although the reductions in time of care assumptions alone would have resulted in a gross 7 percent reduction to radiation oncology as we identified in the proposed rule, CMS in its final rule included updated cost data submitted by the radiation oncology community for code inputs which reversed the vast majority of the reduction resulting from the new time of care assumptions. Total gross 44 Table of Contents reductions in the final rule are offset by a 2 percent increase due to certain other revised radiation oncology codes, which results in a total net reduction to radiation oncology of 7 percent. Medicare reimbursement rates for all procedures under Medicare also are determined by a formula which takes into account a conversion factor ("CF") which is updated on an annual basis based on the sustainable growth rate ("SGR"). The CF was scheduled to decrease 24.9% as of January 1, 2011, but Congress delayed the scheduled cut until the end of 2011. The final Medicare 2012 Physician Fee Schedule, released by CMS on November 1, 2011, would have resulted in a reimbursement decrease of 27.4% as of January 1, 2012. However, Congress again delayed the implementation of this payment cut, first through February 29, 2012 under the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, then through the end of 2012 under the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, and yet again through the end of 2013 under the American Taxpayer Relief Act. If future reductions are not suspended, and if a permanent "doc fix" is not signed into law, the currently scheduled SGR reimbursement decrease (estimated at approximately 25%) will take effect on January 1, 2014. In addition, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction ("JSC") was created under the Budget Control Act of 2011 and signed into law on August 2, 2011. Under the law, unless the JSC could achieve $1.2 trillion in savings, an across-the-board sequestration would occur on January 2, 2013, and each subsequent year through 2021, to achieve $1.2 trillion in savings. On November 21, 2011, the JSC released a statement indicating the committee would be unable to reach agreement, thereby clearing the way for the sequestration process. Unless Congress acts to reverse the cuts, Medicare providers would be cut under the sequestration process by 2 percent each year relative to baseline spending through 2021. On January 2, 2013, the President signed the American Taxpayer Relief Act, which extended the sequestration order required under the Budget Control Act until March 1, 2013. On March 1, 2013, President Obama issued the required sequestration order and, pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 906, the 2 percent Medicare sequester is scheduled to take effect for payments starting on April 1, 2013. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business. National healthcare reform remains a focus at the federal level. On March 21, 2010, the House of Representatives passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the corresponding reconciliation bill. President Obama signed the larger comprehensive bill into law on March 23, 2010 and the reconciliation bill on March 30, 2010 (collectively, the "Health Care Reform Act"). The comprehensive $940 billion dollar overhaul could extend coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured Americans. A significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government healthcare programs, principally Medicare, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. We anticipate the Health Care Reform Act will significantly affect how the healthcare industry operates in relation to Medicare, Medicaid and the insurance industry. The Health Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing fraud and abuse, enrollment in federal healthcare programs, and reimbursement changes, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. We can give no assurance that the Health Care Reform Act will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform would affect our business. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Health Care Reform Act's "individual mandate" that will require individuals as of 2014 to either purchase health insurance or pay a penalty. The Supreme Court also held, however, that the federal government 45 Table of Contents cannot force states to expand their Medicaid programs by threatening to cut their existing Medicaid funds. As a result of this decision, states are left with a choice about whether to expand their Medicaid programs to cover low-income, non-disabled adults without children. In addition, certain members of Congress continue to introduce legislation that would repeal or significantly amend the Health Care Reform Act. Because of the continued uncertainty about the implementation of the Health Care Reform Act, we cannot predict the impact of the law or any future reforms on our business. If payments by managed care organizations and other commercial payers decrease, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We estimate that approximately 51%, 51% and 54% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, was derived from commercial payers such as managed care organizations and private health insurance programs as well as individuals. As of December 31, 2012, we have over 1,300 contracts with commercial payers. These commercial payers generally pay us for the services rendered to an insured patient based upon predetermined rates. Managed care organizations typically pay at lower rates than private health insurance programs. While commercial payer rates are generally higher than government program reimbursement rates, approximately fifteen percent of our commercial payer rates are based in part on Medicare reimbursement rates and when Medicare rates are lowered, commercial rates are often lowered as well. If managed care organizations and other private insurers reduce their rates or we experience a significant shift in our revenue mix toward certain additional managed care payers or Medicare or Medicaid reimbursements, then our revenue and profitability may decline and our operating margins will be reduced. Nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts as well as enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Any inability to maintain suitable financial arrangements with commercial payers could have a material adverse impact on our business. Increasingly, commercial payers are turning to third-party benefits managers to pre-certify radiation oncology services or develop payment-based treatment protocols. The failure to obtain such pre-certifications and adhere to such protocols can result in the payers' denial of payment in whole or in part. While we are working with such benefits managers to assure compliance with their policies or to obtain modification of what we believe to be inappropriate policies, there can be an assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our overall business results may suffer from the economic downturn. The United States economy has weakened significantly. Depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries and geographic locations. During economic downturns, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. These budget deficits may force federal, state and local government entities to decrease spending for health and human service programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our treatment centers. Other risks we face from general economic weakness include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective procedures as well as routine diagnostic examinations, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables. 46 Table of Contents Due to the rising costs of managed care premiums and co-pay amounts, coupled with the current economic environment, we may realize an increased exposure to bad debt due to patients' inability to pay for certain forms of cancer treatment. As more patients become uninsured as a result of job losses or receive reduced coverage as a result of cost-control measures by employers to offset the increased costs of managed care premiums, patients are becoming increasingly responsible for the rising costs of treatment, which is increasing our exposure to bad debt. This also relates to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The shifting responsibility to pay for care has, in some instances, resulted in patients electing not to receive certain forms of cancer treatment. In response to this environment, we have improved our processes associated with verification of insurance eligibility and patient responsibility payment programs. In addition, we have improved our patient financial counseling efforts and developed tools to monitor our progress in this area. However, a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We depend on recruiting and retaining radiation oncologists and other qualified healthcare professionals for our success. Our success is dependent upon our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain or affiliate with radiation oncologists, ICC physicians, physicists, dosimetrists and radiation therapists. While there is currently a national shortage of certain of these healthcare professionals, we have not experienced significant problems attracting and retaining key personnel and professionals in the recent past. We face competition for such personnel from other healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. In the event we are unable to recruit and retain these professionals, such shortages could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow. Additionally, many of our senior radiation oncologists, due to their reputations and experience, are very important in the recruitment and education of radiation oncologists. The loss of any such senior radiation oncologists or ICC physicians could negatively impact us. Most of our radiation oncologists and other ICC physicians in the domestic U.S. are employed under employment agreements which, among other things, provide that they will not compete with us (or the professional corporations contracting with us) for a period of time after their employment terminates. Such covenants not to compete are enforced to varying degrees from state to state. In most states, a covenant not to compete will be enforced only to the extent that it is necessary to protect the legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement, that it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought and that it is not contrary to the public interest. This determination is made based upon all the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. It is unclear whether our interests under our administrative services agreements will be viewed by courts as the type of protected business interest that would permit us or the professional corporations to enforce a non-competition covenant against the radiation oncologists. Since our success depends in substantial part on our ability to preserve the business of our radiation oncologists and other ICC physicians, a determination that these provisions are unenforceable could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on our senior management and we may be materially harmed if we lose any member of our senior management. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management, especially Daniel E. Dosoretz, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director on the Company's board of 47 Table of Contents directors, Daniel H. Galmarini, our Chief Technology Officer and Alejandro Dosoretz, President and Chief Executive Officer of Medical Developers Cooperatief U.A. B.V. We have entered into executive employment and non-competition agreements with certain members of our senior management, including Dr. Dosoretz. Because many members of our senior management team have been with us for over 10 years and have contributed greatly to our growth, their services would be very difficult, time consuming and costly to replace. We carry key-man life insurance on Dr. Daniel Dosoretz. The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. A decision by any of these individuals to leave our employ, to compete with us or to reduce their involvement, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to grow our business effectively or successfully implement our growth plans if we are unable to recruit additional management and other personnel. Our ability to continue to grow our business effectively and successfully implement our growth strategy is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management employees and other key employees. We believe there are a limited number of qualified people in our business and the industry in which we compete. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and retain the key personnel that may be necessary to grow our business effectively or successfully implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to attract and retain talented personnel it could limit our ability to grow our business. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. We have $762.4 million of total debt outstanding. Subject to the limits contained in the indenture governing our notes and our senior secured credit facilities, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher 48 Table of Contents interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. The radiation therapy market is highly competitive. Radiation therapy is a highly competitive business in each market in which we operate. Our treatment centers face competition from hospitals, other medical practitioners and other operators of radiation treatment centers. There is a growing trend by hospitals to employ medical oncologists and other ICC physicians which generally results in such physicians referring their patients to the hospitals' radiation facilities, rather than other free-standing facilities. There is also a growing trend of physicians in specialties other than radiation oncology, such as urology, entering the radiation treatment business. If these trends continue it could harm our referrals and our business. Certain of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, in states that do not require a certificate of need for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. In the event that we are not able to compete successfully, our business may be adversely affected and competition may make it more difficult for us to affiliate with or employ additional radiation oncologists on terms that are favorable to us. We could be the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. Healthcare companies are subject to numerous types of investigations by various governmental agencies. Further, under the False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring "qui tam", or "whistleblower", suits against companies that knowingly submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. The False Claims Act imposes penalties of not less than $5,500 and not more than $11,000, plus three times the amount of damages which the government sustains because of the submission of a false claim. In addition, if we are found to have violated the False Claims Act, we could be excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, inquiries from federal and state agencies related to potential False Claims Act liability. Depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors, as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct audits of our healthcare operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 established the Recovery Audit Contractor ("RAC") three-year demonstration program to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and mandated its nationwide expansion by 2010. CMS awarded contracts to four RACs that have implemented the permanent RAC program on a nationwide basis. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act mandated the expansion of the RAC program to Medicaid. State Medicaid agencies have also increased their review activities. Should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on 49 Table of Contents the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We may be subject to actions for false claims, which could harm our business, if we do not comply with government coding and billing rules. If we fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, we could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could harm us. We estimate that approximately 48%, 48% and 45% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, consisted of payments from Medicare and Medicaid programs. In billing for our services to third-party payers, we must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and on industry practice. Failure to follow these rules could result in potential civil liability under the False Claims Act, under which extensive financial penalties can be imposed. It could further result in criminal liability under various federal and state criminal statutes. We submit thousands of claims for Medicare and other payments and there can be no assurance that there have not been errors. While we carefully and regularly review our documentation, coding and billing practices as part of our compliance program, the rules are frequently vague and confusing and we cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers or private whistleblowers will not challenge our practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with the federal anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could materially harm us. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally funded healthcare program. The federal anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope, as remuneration includes the transfer of anything of value, in cash or in kind. Financial relationships covered by this statute can include any relationship where remuneration is provided for referrals including payments not commensurate with fair market value, whether in the form of space, equipment leases, professional or technical services or anything else of value. As it is an "intent-based" statute, as detailed in federal court precedent, one or both parties must intend the remuneration to be in exchange for or to induce referrals. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000, imprisonment of up to five years, civil penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the remuneration involved, civil penalties under the federal False Claims Act of up to $11,000 for each claim submitted, plus three times the amounts paid for such claims and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This participation exclusion, if applied to us or one or more of our subsidiaries or affiliates, could result in significant reductions in our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, most of the states in which we operate, including Florida, have also adopted laws, similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of whether the source of payment is a government payer or a private payer. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licenses. Under a provision of the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, civil monetary penalties (and exclusion) may be imposed on any person who offers or transfers remuneration to any patient who is a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary, when the person knows or should know that the remuneration is likely to induce the patient to receive medical services from a particular provider. This broad provision 50 Table of Contents applies to many kinds of inducements or benefits provided to patients, including complimentary items, services or transportation that are of more than a nominal value. We have reviewed our practices of providing services to our patients, and have structured those services in a manner that we believe complies with the law and its interpretation by government authorities. We cannot provide assurances, however, that government authorities will not take a contrary view and impose civil monetary penalties and exclude us for past or present practices. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenue. We are subject to the federal Stark Law, as well as similar state statutes and regulations, which bans payments for designated health services ("DHS") rendered as a result of referrals by physicians to DHS entities with which the physicians (or immediate family members) have a financial relationship. DHS includes, but is not limited to, radiation therapy, radiology and laboratory services. A "financial relationship" includes investment and compensation arrangements, both direct and indirect. The regulatory framework of the Stark Law is to first prohibit all referrals from physicians to entities for Medicare DHS and then to except certain types of arrangements from that broad general prohibition. State self-referral laws and regulations vary significantly based on the state and, in many cases, have not been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies. These state laws and regulations can encompass not only services reimbursed by Medicaid or government payers but also private payers. Violation of these federal and state laws and regulations may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of licenses, $15,000 civil monetary penalties for specified infractions, $100,000 for a circumvention scheme, criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs, and potential false claims liability, including via "qui tam" action, of not less than $5,500 and not more than $11,000 per claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the government sustains because of an improperly submitted claim. The repayment provisions in the Stark Law are not dependent on the parties having an improper intent; rather, the Stark Law is a strict liability statute and any violation is subject to repayment of all "tainted" referrals. Our compensation and other financial arrangements with physicians are governed by the federal Stark Law. We rely on certain exceptions to the Stark Law, including those covering employees and in-office ancillary services, and the exclusion of certain requests by radiation oncologists for radiation therapy services from the definition of "referral". Under our ICC model, we have relationships with non-radiation oncology physicians such as medical oncologists, surgeons and urologists that are members of a group practice with our radiation oncologists and we rely on the Stark group practice definition and rules with respect to such relationships. The Health Care Reform Act also imposes new disclosure requirements, including one such requirement on referring physicians under the federal Stark Law to inform patients that they may obtain certain imaging services (e.g. MRI, CT and PET) or other designated health services as specified by the Secretary in the future from a provider other than that physician, his or her group practice, or another physician in his or her group practice. To date, CMS has not applied these disclosure requirements to radiation therapy referrals but could do so in the future. While we believe that our financial relationships with physicians and referral practices are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that government authorities might take a different position. If we were found to be in violation of the Stark Law, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines as specified above, exclusion from participation in government and private payer programs and requirements to refund amounts previously received from government and private payers. 51 Table of Contents In addition, expansion of our operations to new jurisdictions, or new interpretations of laws in our existing jurisdictions, could require structural and organizational modifications of our relationships with physicians to comply with that jurisdiction's laws. Such structural and organizational modifications could result in lower profitability and failure to achieve our growth objectives. Certain states have proposed statutory or regulatory enactments that would prohibit the use of the Stark Law "in office ancillary exception" ("IOAE") for ICC physicians to obtain any financial benefit from radiation oncology and other DHS services even if they are part of a group practice. To date, only the state of Maryland has enacted such prohibition. Similarly, ASTRO is proposing federal legislation that would eliminate radiation oncology from the IOAE exception to the Stark Law. If any of these state or ASTRO initiatives are promulgated, this could have a material adverse impact on our ICC model and our business. If a federal or state agency asserts a different position or enacts new laws or regulations regarding illegal payments under the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, experience a significant reduction in our revenue or be excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our treatment centers, equipment, personnel, services, pricing or capital expenditure programs, which could increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for or profitability of our services. Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with our radiation oncologists or other physicians to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our treatment centers. If any of our business arrangements with our radiation oncologists or other physicians in a position to make referrals of radiation therapy services were deemed to violate the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, our business would be adversely affected. Our costs and potential risks have increased as a result of the regulations relating to privacy and security of patient information. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient information privacy and security concerns, including state laws related to identity theft. In particular, the federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as modified by Title XIII, subtitle D of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively, "HIPAA") contain provisions that: •protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of patient information; •require notifications to individuals, and in certain cases to government agencies and the media, in the event of a breach of unsecured protected health information; •require the implementation of security safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of individually identifiable health information in electronic form; and •prescribe specific transaction formats and data code sets for certain electronic healthcare transactions. Compliance with these regulations requires us to spend money and substantial time and resources. We believe that we are in material compliance with the HIPAA regulations with which we are currently required to comply. If we fail to comply with the HIPAA regulations, we could suffer civil penalties up to $50,000 per violation, not to exceed $1.5 million per calendar year and criminal penalties with fines 52 Table of Contents up to $250,000 per violation and possible imprisonment. Our facilities could be subject to a periodic audit by the federal government, and enforcement of HIPAA violations may occur by either federal agencies or state attorneys general. In 2011, the government launched a HIPAA audit initiative that will likely result in greater HIPAA enforcement activity. State law limitations and prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine may materially harm our business and limit how we can operate. State governmental authorities regulate the medical industry and medical practices extensively. Many states have corporate practice of medicine laws which prohibit us from: •employing physicians; •practicing medicine, which, in some states, includes managing or operating a radiation treatment center; •certain types of fee arrangements with physicians; •owning or controlling equipment used in a medical practice; •setting fees charged for physician services; •controlling the content of physician advertisements; •billing and coding for services; •pursuing relationships with physicians and other referral sources; or •adding facilities and services. In addition, many states impose limits on the tasks a physician may delegate to other staff members. We have administrative services agreements in states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine such as California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina. Corporate practice of medicine laws and their interpretation vary from state to state, and regulatory authorities enforce them with broad discretion. We have structured our agreements and services in those states in a manner that we believe complied with the law and its interpretation by government authorities. If, however, we are deemed to be in violation of these laws, we could be required to restructure or terminate our agreements which could materially harm our business and limit how we operate. In the event the corporate practice of medicine laws of other states would adversely limit our ability to operate, it could prevent us from expanding into the particular state and impact our growth strategy. In certain states we depend on administrative services agreements with professional corporations, including related party professional corporations, and if we are unable to continue to enter into them or they are terminated, we could be materially harmed. Certain states, including California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, have laws prohibiting business corporations from employing physicians. Our treatment centers in California, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, operate through administrative services agreements with professional corporations that employ the radiation oncologists who provide professional services at the treatment centers in those states. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, $118.4 million, $114.7 million and $132.8 million, respectively, of our net patient service revenue was derived from administrative services agreements, as opposed to $417.5 million, $524.0 million and $553.4 million, respectively, from all of our other centers. The professional corporations in these states are currently owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders, who are licensed to practice medicine in those states. As we enter into new states that will require an administrative services agreement, there can be no assurance that a related party professional corporation, or any 53 Table of Contents professional corporation, will be willing or able to enter into an administrative services agreement. Furthermore, if we enter into an administrative services agreement with an unrelated party there could be an increased risk of differences arising or future termination. We cannot assure you that a professional corporation will not seek to terminate an agreement with us on any basis, including on the basis of state laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine nor can we assure you that governmental authorities in those states will not seek termination of these arrangements on the same basis. While we have not been subject to such proceedings in the past, nor are we currently aware of any other corporations that are subject to such proceedings, we could be materially harmed if any state governmental authorities or the professional corporations with which we have an administrative services agreement were to succeed in such a termination. Our business could be materially harmed by future interpretation or implementation of state laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting. Many states prohibit the splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and non-physicians, as well as between treating physicians and referral sources. These laws vary from state to state and are enforced by courts and regulatory agencies, each with broad discretion. Some states have interpreted certain types of fee arrangements in practice management agreements between entities and physicians as unlawful fee-splitting. We believe our arrangements with physicians comply in all material respects with the fee-splitting laws of the states in which we operate. Nevertheless, if government regulatory authorities were to disagree, we and our radiation oncologists could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be required to restructure or terminate our contractual and other arrangements, which would result in a loss of revenue and could result in less input into the business decisions of such practices. In addition, expansion of our operations to other states with certain types of fee-splitting prohibitions may require structural and organizational modification to the form of relationships that we currently have with physicians, professional corporations and hospitals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our treatment center operations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our treatment center operations are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that our treatment centers meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including those relating to: •qualification of medical and support persons; •pricing of services by healthcare providers; •the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; •clinic licensure and certificates of need; •maintenance and protection of records; or •environmental protection, health and safety. While we have structured our operations in a manner that we believe complies in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that government regulators will agree, given the breadth and complexity of such laws. If a government agency were to find that we are not in compliance with these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including becoming the subject of cease and desist orders, rejection of the payment of our claims, the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in government or private healthcare programs. 54 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by technological and therapeutic changes. The treatment of cancer patients is subject to potential revolutionary technological and therapeutic changes. Future technological developments could render our equipment obsolete. We may incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. In addition, there may be significant advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery, biological therapy, or in cancer prevention techniques, which could reduce demand or even eliminate the need for the radiation therapy services we provide. Changes in Prostate Cancer Treatments. We believe that the U.S. Preventative Task Force recommendation against PSA screening, as well as NCI suggested changes in treatment patterns away from definitive treatment and towards "watchful waiting" or "active surveillance" have led to a decline in the volume of prostate cancer patients treated by radiation therapy facilities nationally as well as the volume of prostate cancer patients treated by other methods. On a same practice basis, in calendar year 2012, our prostate cancer treatment volumes decreased by 9.2% over calendar year 2011. There is no assurance that we may not suffer further declines which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire and develop additional treatment centers on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, our future growth could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisition and development opportunities on reasonable terms. We began operating our first radiation treatment center in 1983, and provide radiation therapy at all of our treatment centers. We expect to continue to add additional treatment centers in our existing and new local markets. Our growth, however, will depend on several factors, including: •our ability to obtain desirable locations for treatment centers in suitable markets; •our ability to identify, recruit and retain or affiliate with a sufficient number of radiation oncologists and other healthcare professionals; •our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our growth strategy; and •our ability to successfully operate under applicable government regulations. Growth through acquisitions is a primary component of our business strategy. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material. Future acquisitions could be financed by internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. If we complete acquisitions, we will encounter various associated risks, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, goodwill impairment, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. See "Risk Factors—We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional treatment centers, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those treatment centers." 55 Table of Contents We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional treatment centers, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those treatment centers. Over the past three years ended December 31, 2012, we have acquired 37 treatment centers and developed 4 treatment centers. When we acquire or develop additional treatment centers, we may: •be unable to successfully operate the treatment centers; •have difficulty integrating their operations and personnel; •be unable to retain radiation oncologists or key management personnel; •acquire treatment centers with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations; •experience difficulties with transitioning or integrating the information systems of acquired treatment centers; •be unable to contract with third-party payers or attract patients to our treatment centers; and/or •experience losses and lower gross revenues and operating margins during the initial periods of operating our newly-developed treatment centers. Larger acquisitions can substantially increase our potential exposure to business risks. Furthermore, integrating a new treatment center could be expensive and time consuming, and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and other key personnel. We may continue to explore acquisition opportunities outside of the United States when favorable opportunities are available to us. In addition to the risks set forth herein, foreign acquisitions involve unique risks including the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with the specific country, currency risks, the relative uncertainty regarding laws and regulations and the potential difficulty of integrating operations across different cultures and languages. We currently plan to continue to acquire and develop new treatment centers in existing and new local markets. We may not be able to structure economically beneficial arrangements in new markets as a result of healthcare laws applicable to such market or otherwise. If these plans change for any reason or the anticipated schedules for opening and costs of development are revised by us, we may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that these planned treatment centers will be completed or that, if developed, will achieve sufficient patient volume to generate positive operating margins. If we are unable to timely and efficiently integrate an acquired or newly-developed treatment center, our business could suffer. In addition, we may incur significant transaction fees and expenses even for potential transactions that are not consummated. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the revenue, and benefits identified in this offering memorandum from completed acquisitions or that we will achieve synergies and cost savings or benefits in connection with future acquisitions. In addition, many of the businesses that we have acquired and will acquire have unaudited financial statements that have been prepared by the management of such companies and have not been independently reviewed and audited. We cannot assure that the financial statements of companies we have acquired or will acquire would not be materially different if such statements were audited. Finally, we cannot assure you that we will continue to acquire businesses at valuations consistent with our prior acquisitions or that we will complete acquisitions at all. 56 Table of Contents Efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare treatment centers could prevent us from developing or acquiring additional treatment centers or other facilities or renovating our existing treatment centers. Many states have enacted certificate of need laws which require prior approval for the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare treatment centers. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare treatment centers or services. In the states of Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan, North Carolina, Rhode Island, South Carolina and West Virginia in which we currently operate, certificates of need must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters. Other states in which we now or may in the future operate may also require certificates of need under certain circumstances not currently applicable to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the certificates of need or other required approvals for ongoing, additional or expanded treatment centers or services in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a treatment center, we may agree to replace equipment or expand the acquired treatment center. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional treatment centers or other facilities, expand the healthcare services we provide at these treatment centers or replace equipment or expand acquired treatment centers. We are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant operations in foreign countries. Currently, we operate through 23 legal entities in Argentina, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico and El Salvador, in addition to our operations in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not necessarily limited to: •new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, which may conflict with U.S. laws; •local economic conditions; •potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; •increased costs of transportation or shipping; •credit risk and financial conditions of government, commercial and patient payers; •risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; •potential imposition of restrictions on investments; •potential declines in government and/or private payer reimbursement amounts for our services; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; •foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and •local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. 57 Table of Contents Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, we must comply with U.S. economic sanctions and export control laws in connection with exports of products and services, and we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official or agent thereof for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA, economic sanctions and export controls, and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, local governments may take actions that are adverse to our interests and our business. For example, in 2012 Argentina's government nationalized the country's largest oil and gas company via taking a 51% stake. While no such proposal has been made or threatened with respect to any businesses in the Argentine healthcare sector, we have significant operations in Argentina and any such development could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our international subsidiaries accounted for $60.5 million and $81.2 million or 9.4% and 11.7%, of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Some of our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in foreign countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The main currency to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, is the Argentine peso. The exchange rate between the Argentine peso and the U.S. dollar in recent years has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of this currency will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into a transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Exchange controls implemented by the Argentine Government on the acquisition of U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies could have a material impact in our operations, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine government has implemented certain measures that control and restrict the ability of companies and individuals to exchange Argentine Pesos for foreign currencies. Those measures include, among other things, the requirement to obtain the prior approval from the Argentine Tax Authority of the foreign currency transaction (for example and without limitation, for the payment of non-Argentine goods and services, payment of principal and interest on non-Argentine debt and also payment of dividends to parties outside of the country), which approval process could delay, and eventually restrict, the ability to exchange Argentine pesos for other currencies, such as U.S. dollars. 58 Table of Contents Those approvals are administered by the Argentine Central Bank through the MULC, which is the only market where exchange transactions may be lawfully made. Further, restrictions also currently apply to the acquisition of any foreign currency for holding as cash within Argentina. There can be no assurance that the Central Bank of Argentina or other government agencies will not increase such controls or restrictions or make modifications to these regulations or establish more severe restrictions on currency exchange, making payments to foreign creditors or providers, dividend payments to foreign shareholders or require its prior authorization for such purposes. As a result of these exchange controls and restrictions could materially affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our Argentine subsidiaries and could significantly impact our ability to comply with our foreign currency obligations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets. A significant portion of our total assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, accounted for approximately 56% and 60% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We may not realize the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We expect to engage in additional transactions that will result in our recognition of additional goodwill or other intangible assets. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and is therefore impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our goodwill or the unamortized portion of our intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we wrote-off approximately $91.2 million in goodwill as a result of our annual impairment test and an additional $2.5 million as a result of closing certain radiation treatment centers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we wrote-off approximately $360.6 million in goodwill, trade name, leasehold improvements and other investments as a result of our annual impairment testing of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and rebranding initiatives relating to our trade name. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we wrote-off approximately $81.0 million in goodwill and leasehold improvements as a result of our interim impairment testing of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our information systems are critical to our business and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information, and to provide our radiation treatment centers with efficient and effective accounting and scheduling systems. Our information systems require maintenance and upgrading to meet our needs, which could significantly increase our administrative expenses. We are currently upgrading multiple systems and migrating to other systems within our organization. Furthermore, any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. The performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. Our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: •accounting and financial reporting; 59 Table of Contents •billing and collecting accounts; •coding and compliance; •clinical systems; •medical records and document storage; •inventory management; •negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and •monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full Medicare payment updates. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the DHHS has developed and is implementing an incentive payment program for eligible healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record ("EHR") technology. If our radiation treatment centers are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. Further, beginning in 2015, eligible healthcare professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In connection with the financial reporting and close process for the fourth quarter of 2012 we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to the valuation of goodwill. Future material weaknesses could lead to errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. In connection with the financial reporting and close process for the fourth quarter of 2012 we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to the valuation of goodwill. Further material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting or ineffectiveness in disclosure controls and procedures could result in errors in our financial statements or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. A significant number of our treatment centers are concentrated in certain states, particularly Florida, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in those states. Our Florida treatment centers accounted for approximately 45%, 40% and 39% of our freestanding radiation revenues during the years ended December 31 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Our treatment centers are also concentrated in the states of Michigan and North Carolina, which accounted for approximately 5% and 8%, respectively, of our freestanding radiation revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. This concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory requirements in those locations, including those related to false and improper claims, anti-kickback laws, self-referral laws, fee-splitting, corporate practice of medicine, anti-trust, licensing and certificates of need, as well as economic and other conditions which could impact us. If our treatment centers in these states are adversely affected by changes in regulatory, economic and other conditions, our revenue and profitability may decline. 60 Table of Contents Our treatment centers in Florida and other areas that could be disrupted or damaged by hurricanes. Florida is susceptible to hurricanes and we currently have 31 radiation treatment centers located in Florida. Our Florida centers accounted for approximately 45%, 40% and 39% of our freestanding radiation revenues during the years ended December 31 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In 2005, 21 of our treatment centers in South Florida were disrupted by Hurricane Wilma which required us to close all of these centers for one business day. Although none of these treatment centers suffered structural damage as a result of the hurricane, their utility services were disrupted. While Hurricane Wilma did not have any long-term impact on our business, our Florida treatment centers and any of our other treatment centers located in other areas that are in the path of a hurricane could be subject to significant hurricane-related disruptions and/or damage in the future and could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results. We carry property damage and business interruption insurance on our facilities, but there can be no assurance that it would be adequate to cover all of our hurricane-related losses. We have potential conflicts of interest relating to our related party transactions which could harm our business. We have potential conflicts of interest relating to existing agreements we have with certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we paid an aggregate of $19.9 million, $21.5 million and $21.6 million, respectively, under certain of our related party agreements, including leases, and we received $85.6 million, $82.7 million and $62.5 million, respectively, pursuant to our administrative services agreements with related parties. Potential conflicts of interest can exist if a related party has to make a decision that has different implications for us and the related party. If a dispute arises in connection with any of these agreements, if not resolved satisfactorily to us, our business could be harmed. These agreements include •administrative services agreements with professional corporations that are owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders; •leases we have entered into with entities owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders; and •medical malpractice insurance which we acquire from an entity owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. In California, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and North Carolina, we have administrative services agreements with professional corporations that are owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders who own interests in these professional corporations. While we have transition services agreements corresponding to our administrative services agreements in place in all states except New York that provide us with the ability to designate qualified successor physician owners of the shares held by the physician owners of these professional corporations upon the occurrence of certain events, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce them under the laws of the respective states or that they will not be challenged by regulatory agencies. Potential conflicts of interest may arise in connection with the administrative services agreements that may have materially different implications for us and the professional corporations and there can be no assurance that it will not harm us. For example, we bill for such services either on a fixed basis, percentage of net collections basis, or on a per treatment basis, depending on the particular state requirements and certain of these arrangements are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis. We may be unable to renegotiate acceptable fees, in which event many of the administrative services agreements provide for binding arbitration. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiations or arbitration this could negatively impact our operating margins or result in the termination of our administrative services agreements. 61 Table of Contents Additionally, we lease 36 of our treatment centers from ownership groups that consist of certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. Our lease for the Broadway office in Fort Myers, Florida is on a month-to-month basis and there can be no assurance that it will continue in the future. We may be unable to renegotiate these leases when they come up for renewal on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In October 2003, we replaced our existing third-party medical malpractice insurance coverage with coverage we obtained from an insurance entity which is owned by certain of our directors, executive officers and equityholders. We renewed this coverage in 2010, 2011 and 2012, with the approval of the Audit/Compliance Committee of the Company's board of directors. We may be unable to renegotiate this coverage at acceptable rates and comparable coverage may not be available from third-party insurance companies. If we are unsuccessful in renewing our malpractice insurance coverage, we may not be able to continue to operate without being exposed to substantial risks of claims being made against us for damage awards we are unable to pay. Related party transactions between us and any related party are subject to approval by the Audit/Compliance Committee on behalf of the Company's board of directors or by the Company's board of directors, and disputes are handled by the Company's board of directors. There can be no assurance that the above or any future conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. If not resolved, such conflicts could harm our business. For a further description of our related party transactions, see "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence." Our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us. Our treatment centers provide specialized treatment involving the use of radioactive material in the treatment of the lungs, prostate, breasts, cervix and other organs. The materials are obtained from, and, if not permanently placed in a patient or consumed, returned to, a third-party provider of supplies to hospitals and other radiation therapy practices, which has the ultimate responsibility for its proper disposal. We, however, remain subject to state and federal laws regulating the protection of employees who may be exposed to hazardous material and regulating the proper handling, storage and disposal of that material. Although we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability, or require us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on us. In response to a number of articles concerning the risk of significant (sometimes fatal) errors in radiation therapy, especially relating to linear radiation, accreditation of facilities and the establishment of a national error reporting database are under consideration. Several articles have been published discussing the risks of (sometimes fatal) errors in radiation therapy treatment, especially those relating to linear accelerators. In response, American College of Radiation Oncology ("ACRO") has called for required accreditation of all facilities which bill Medicare for advanced medical imaging and radiation oncology services, including those in hospitals. In addition, the American Society for Radiation Oncology called for the establishment of the nation's first central database for the reporting of errors involving linear accelerators and CT scanners. Federal legislation in these areas is under consideration and a congressional hearing was recently held. Of our 95 domestic U.S. treatment centers, 78 have received or are in process of receiving ACRO accreditation. In addition to a deep physics infrastructure and internal maintenance department, we have recently begun to utilize Gamma Function as a broad application radiation safety monitoring tool to minimize potential errors in our radiation therapy treatments. While we continue to improve upon safety measures aimed at minimizing errors in radiation therapy treatment in accordance with our internal protocols as well as the mandates of organizations like ACRO, we cannot assure you that any 62 Table of Contents further critical press and government scrutiny will not adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. We could be subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. For a discussion of current pending material litigation against us, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." If payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Our financial results could be adversely affected by the increasing costs of professional liability insurance and by successful malpractice claims. We are exposed to the risk of professional liability and other claims against us and our radiation oncologists and other physicians and professionals arising out of patient medical treatment at our treatment centers. Our risk exposure as it relates to our non-radiation oncology physicians could be greater than with our radiation oncologists to the extent such non-radiation oncology physicians are engaged in diagnostic activities. Malpractice claims, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards which might exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Insurance against losses of this type can be expensive and insurance premiums may increase in the near future. Insurance rates vary from state to state, by physician specialty and other factors. The rising costs of insurance premiums, as well as successful malpractice claims against us or one of our physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. It is also possible that our excess liability and other insurance coverage will not continue to be available at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. In addition, our insurance does not cover all potential liabilities arising from governmental fines and penalties, indemnification agreements and certain other uninsurable losses. For example, from time to time we agree to indemnify third parties, such as hospitals and clinical laboratories, for various claims that may not be covered by insurance. As a result, we may become responsible for substantial damage awards that are uninsured. If payment for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We are indirectly owned and controlled by Vestar and its interests may conflict with yours as a noteholder. Vestar indirectly controls approximately 81% of the Class A voting equity units of RT Investments LLC, which controls us, and which in turn controls Radiation Therapy Services, Inc. ("RTS"). As a result, they have the power to elect a majority of RTS's board of directors and effectively have control over major decisions regardless of whether noteholders believe that any such decisions are in their own best interests. The interests of Vestar as an equity holder may conflict with your interests as a noteholder of RTS. Vestar may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds at the expense of our financial condition and affect our ability to make payments on the notes. In addition, Vestar may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that it believes could enhance its equity investments even though such transactions might involve risks to you as a noteholder of RTS. 63 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 