D. Risk Factors Risks Inherent in Our Business Our growth depends upon continued increases in world and regional demand for chartering containerships, and the slow pace of global economic recovery may impede our ability to continue to grow our business. The ocean-going container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. According to Clarkson Research, containership charter rates peaked in 2005, with the Containership Timecharter Rate Index (a per TEU weighted average of 6-12 month time charter rates of Panamax and smaller vessels (1993=100)) reaching 172 points in March and April 2005, and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the economic crisis began to affect global container trade, driving the Containership Timecharter Rate Index to a 10-year low of 32 points in the period from November 2009 to January 2010. As of the end of December 2014, the Containership Timecharter Rate Index stood at 47 points. According to Clarkson Research, demand for containerships declined significantly, following the onset of the global economic downturn. After growing by just 4.0% in 2008, container trade contracted by 9.2% in 2009 before rebounding by 13.8% in 2010. While container trade grew by a CAGR of 5.0% per annum between 2010 and 2013 and is estimated to have risen by 6.0% in 2014 and is projected to grow by a further 6.7% in 2015, such projections are subject to a wide range of risks. In 2014, worldwide trade volumes increased, but containership supply continued to exceed demand during the year as more large vessels were delivered. In addition, according to Clarkson Research, as of January 2015, the containership order-book for vessels with carrying capacity of 8,000-12,000 TEU represented 29% of the existing fleet capacity, and for vessels with carrying capacity of 12,000 TEU and above, the containership order-book represented 58% of the existing fleet capacity, both increasing the expected future supply of larger vessels and having a spillover effect on the market segment for smaller vessels. An oversupply in the containership market may negatively affected time charter rates for both short- and long-term periods as well as box freight rates charged by liner companies to shippers. Freight rates have become more volatile since the downturn in 2009 and, despite some short-term improvements, freight rates have remained under pressure. Starting from the second half of 2014, liner companies, to which we seek to charter our containerships, have benefited from the recent collapse in the price of oil. Relatively weak trade growth coupled with the on-going delivery of high capacity containerships has placed significant pressure on certain trade routes as well. The continuation of such low freight rates or any further declines in freight rates, coupled with a sudden increase in oil price, would negatively affect liner companies and could lower prevailing charter rates. Weak or volatile conditions in the containership sector may affect our ability to generate cash flows and maintain liquidity, as well as adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products shipped in containers; • changes in global production of products transported by containerships; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • the distance container cargo products are to be moved by sea; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; • port and canal congestion; and • currency exchange rates. 3 The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the availability of financing; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • the number of newbuild vessel deliveries; • the availability of shipyard capacity; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the number of containerships that are out of service; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of containerships; • the price of fuel; and • the economics of slow steaming. Our ability to re-charter our containerships upon the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal options or replacement time charters will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the containership charter market, which can be affected by consumer demand for products shipped in containers. If the charter market is depressed when our containerships’ time charters expire, we may be forced to re-charter our containerships at reduced or even unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to re-charter them at all and/or we may be forced to scrap them, which may reduce or eliminate our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will be faced if we acquire additional vessels and attempt to obtain long-term time charters as part of our acquisition and financing plan. Our liner company customers have been placed under significant financial pressure, thereby increasing our charter counterparty risk. The continuing weakness in demand for container shipping services and the oversupply of large containerships (as well as potential oversupply of smaller size vessels due to a cascading effect) places our liner company customers under financial pressure. Any future declines in demand could result in worsening financial challenges to our liner company customers and may increase the likelihood of one or more of our customers being unable or unwilling to pay us contracted charter rates. We expect to generate most of our revenues from these charters and if our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us, we will sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. One of our charterers, Zim Integrated Shipping Services (“ZIM”), finalized the terms of its comprehensive financial restructuring plan with its shareholders and its creditors, including vessel and container lenders, ship-owners, shipyards, unsecured lenders and bond holders, in July 2014. Based on this agreement, the Company has been granted charter extensions and has been issued equity securities representing 1.2% of ZIM’s equity and approximately $8.2 million principal amount of unsecured interest bearing notes maturing in 2023. If the fair value of the ZIM equity and debt securities fall below their carrying values, we may be required to record an impairment charge in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will be no further concessions or modification to the charter arrangements with ZIM. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. An oversupply of containership capacity may prolong or further depress the current charter rates and adversely affect our ability to re-charter our existing containerships at profitable rates or at all. From 2005 through the first quarter of 2010, the containership order-book was at historically high levels as a percentage of the in-water fleet. Although order-book volumes have decreased as deliveries of previously ordered containerships increased substantially, some renewed ordering in late 2012 of mainly larger vessels maintained the order-book at average levels. According to Clarkson Research, as of January 2015, the containership order-book for vessels with carrying capacity of 8,000-12,000 TEU 4 represented 29% of the existing fleet capacity, and for vessels with carrying capacity of 12,000 TEU and above, the containership order-book represented 58% of the existing fleet capacity. An oversupply of large newbuild vessel and/or re-chartered containership capacity entering the market, combined with any future decline in the demand for containerships, may result in a reduction of charter rates and may decrease our ability to re-charter our containerships other than for reduced rates or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to re-charter our containerships at all. Weak economic conditions throughout the world, particularly the Asia Pacific region and a renewed European Union sovereign debt crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global economy remains relatively weak, when compared to the period prior to the 2008-2009 financial crisis. The current global recovery is proceeding at varying speeds across regions and is still subject to downside risks stemming from factors like fiscal fragility in advanced economies, high sovereign debt levels, highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and persistent difficulties in access to credit. In particular, concerns regarding the possibility of a renewed financial crisis in Greece and a possible exit from the eurozone may disrupt financial markets, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States, and other parts of the world. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods shipped in containerized form. In addition, the possibility of a renewed financial crisis in Greece may spread throughout Europe and could impact the global economy and have a material adverse effect on our business. We anticipate that a significant number of port calls made by our containerships will continue to involve the loading or unloading of container cargoes in ports in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. However, if China’s growth in gross domestic product declines and other countries in the Asia Pacific region experience slowed or experience negative economic growth in the future, this may negatively affect the fragile recovery of the economies of the United States and the European Union, and thus, may negatively impact container shipping demand. For example, the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, including Greece, and the possibility of market reforms to float the Chinese renminbi, either of which development could weaken the Euro against the Chinese renminbi, could adversely affect consumer demand in the European Union. Moreover, the revaluation of the renminbi may negatively impact the United States’ demand for imported goods, many of which are shipped from China in containerized form. Such weak economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been severely disrupted and volatile in recent years and remain subject to significant vulnerabilities, such as the deterioration of fiscal balances and the rapid accumulation of public debt, continued deleveraging in the banking sector and a limited supply of credit. Credit markets as well as the debt and equity capital markets were exceedingly distressed during 2008 and 2009 and have been volatile since that time. The continuing sovereign debt crisis in Greece and other eurozone countries, civil unrest in Ukraine and advances of terrorist organizations in the Middle East have led to increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. These issues, along with the re-pricing of credit risk and the difficulties currently experienced by financial institutions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. As a result of the disruptions in the credit markets and higher capital requirements, many lenders have increased margins on lending rates, enacted tighter lending standards, required more restrictive terms (including higher collateral ratios for advances, shorter maturities and smaller loan amounts), or have refused to refinance existing debt at all. Furthermore, certain banks that have historically been significant lenders to the shipping industry have reduced or ceased lending 5 activities in the shipping industry. Additional tightening of capital requirements and the resulting policies adopted by lenders, could further reduce lending activities. We may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments or be unable to fully draw on the capacity under our committed term loans in the future if our lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. We cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our future obligations as they come due. Our failure to obtain such funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our stockholders. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, as a result of the ongoing economic slump in Greece resulting from the sovereign debt crisis and the related austerity measures implemented by the Greek government, our operations in Greece may be subjected to new regulations that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Greek government new taxes or other fees. Furthermore, the change in the Greek government and potential shift in its policies may undermine Greece’s political and economic stability and may lead it exit the eurozone, which may adversely affect our operations and those of our managers located in Greece. We also face the risk that capital controls, strikes, work stoppages, civil unrest and violence within Greece may disrupt our shoreside operations and those of our managers located in Greece. We are dependent on our charterers and other counterparties fulfilling their obligations under agreements with us, and their inability or unwillingness to honor these obligations could significantly reduce our revenues and cash flow. We expect that our containerships will continue to be chartered to customers mainly under long-term fixed rate time charters. Payments to us under these time charters are and will be our sole source of operating cash flow. Many of our charterers finance their activities through cash from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Since 2008, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit, and the equity markets have been volatile. The combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from lower demand for our ships due to declines in world trade, a reduction in borrowing bases under any credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in the ability of our charterers to make charter payments to us. Additionally, we could lose a time charter if the charterer exercises certain specified, limited termination rights. If we lose a time charter because the charterer is unable to pay us or for any other reason, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on similarly favorable terms or at all. Also, we will not receive any revenues from such a vessel while it is un-chartered, but we will be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain and insure the vessel and service any indebtedness on it. The combination of any surplus of containership capacity and the expected increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years may make it difficult to secure substitute employment for any of our containerships if our counterparties fail to perform their obligations under the currently arranged time charters, and any new charter arrangements we are able to secure may be at lower rates. Furthermore, the surplus of containerships available at lower charter rates and lack of demand for our customers’ liner services could negatively affect our charterers’ willingness to perform their obligations under our time charters, particularly if the charter rates in such time charters are significantly above the prevailing market rates. Accordingly we may have to grant concessions to our charterers in the form of lower charter rates for the remaining duration of the relevant charter or part thereof, or to agree to re-charter vessels coming off charter at reduced rates compared to the charter then ended. While we have agreed in certain cases to charter rate re-arrangements entailing reductions for specified periods, we have been compensated for these adjustments by, among other things, subsequent rate increases, so that the aggregate payments under the charters are not materially reduced, and in some cases we also have arranged for term extensions. However, there is no assurance that any future charter re-arrangements will be on similarly favorable terms. 6 The loss of any of our charterers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our time charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may, among other things, enter into shipbuilding contracts, provide performance guarantees relating to shipbuilding contracts or to charters, enter into credit facilities or other financing arrangements, accept commitment letters from banks, or enter into insurance contracts and interest or exchange rate swaps. Such agreements expose us to counterparty credit risk. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the state of the capital markets, the condition of the ocean-going container shipping industry and charter hire rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. A limited number of customers operating in a consolidating industry comprise a large part of our revenues. The loss of these customers could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Our customers in the containership sector consist of a limited number of liner companies. A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S (“A.P. Moller-Maersk”), Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A. (“MSC”), members of the Evergreen Group (“Evergreen”), Hapag Lloyd Aktiengesellschaft (“Hapag Lloyd”) and Cosco Container Lines Co., Ltd. (“COSCO”) together represented 91%, 93% and 94% of our revenue in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We expect that a limited number of leading liner companies will continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. The cessation of business with these liner companies or their failure to fulfill their obligations under the time charters for our containerships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our cash flows. In addition, any consolidations or alliances involving our customers could further increase the concentration of our business. We could lose a customer or the benefits of our time charter arrangements for many different reasons, including if the customer is unable or unwilling to make charter hire or other payments to us because of a deterioration in its financial condition, disagreements with us or otherwise. If any of these customers terminate their charters or are unable to perform under its charters and we are not able to find replacement charters on similar terms, we will suffer a loss of revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. A decrease in the level of China’s export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterers’ business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our containerships are deployed on routes involving containerized trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterers’ container shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China’s exports and on our charterers’ business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese-made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for container shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. The level of 7 imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If global economic recovery is undermined by downside risks and the economic downturn continues, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve has caused and may continue to cause an increase in (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterers’ business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct a substantial amount of business in China, including through one of our managers, Shanghai Costamare, a Chinese corporation, and our time charters with COSCO. The legal system in China is not fully developed and has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and their legal interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. We do a substantial amount of business in China, including through one of our managers, Shanghai Costamare Ship Management Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Costamare”), a Chinese corporation which, as of February 27, 2015, operated 13 vessels that were exclusively manned by Chinese crews, including two vessels purchased pursuant to the Framework Agreement with York, which exposes us to potential litigation in China. Additionally, we have charters with COSCO, a Chinese corporation, and though these charters are governed by English law, we may have difficulties enforcing a judgment rendered by an English court (or other non-Chinese court) in China. Such charters, and any additional charters that we enter into with Chinese customers, may be subject to new regulations in China that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Chinese government new taxes or other fees. Changes in laws and regulations, including with regards to tax matters, and their implementation by local authorities could affect our vessels chartered to Chinese customers as well as our vessels calling to Chinese ports and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may be unable to obtain additional debt financing for future acquisitions of vessels and to fund payments in respect of the newbuild orders. We intend to borrow against unencumbered containerships in our existing fleet and vessels we may acquire in the future as part of our growth plan. Our ability to borrow against the ships in our existing fleet and any ships we may acquire in the future largely depends on the value of the ships, which in turn depends in part on charter hire rates and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, and any decline in the market value of our fleet may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of 8 obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing or committing to financing on unattractive terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We have not obtained financing for four newbuilds ordered pursuant to the Framework Agreement. The ownership structure under the Framework Agreement and the lack of time charters for these four newbuilds may make it more difficult or expensive to obtain third party debt financing for these newbuilds. Our ability to pay dividends or to redeem our Preferred Stock may be limited by the amount of cash we generate from operations following the payment of fees and expenses, by the establishment of any reserves, by restrictions in our debt instruments and by additional factors unrelated to our profitability. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends (including cumulative dividends payable with respect to our Preferred Stock) is, however, subject to the discretion of our board of directors and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things (a) our earnings, financial condition, cash flow and cash requirements, (b) our liquidity, including our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our vessel acquisition strategy, (c) restrictive covenants in our existing and future debt instruments and (d) provisions of Marshall Islands law governing the payment of dividends. The international containership industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends or to redeem our Preferred Stock in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends or the redemption of our Preferred Stock and our obligation to pay dividends to holders of our Preferred Stock will reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock. The amount of cash we generate from operations and the actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends will vary based upon, among other things: • the charter hire payments we obtain from our charters as well as our ability to re-charter the vessels and the rates obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • the due performance by our charterers of their obligations; • our fleet expansion strategy and associated uses of our cash and our financing requirements; • delays in the delivery of newbuild vessels and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • the level of our operating costs, such as the costs of crews, lubricants and insurance; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled dry-docking of our containerships; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; • the dividend policy adopted by Costamare Ventures and the vessel-owning entities for the Joint Venture vessels; and • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. 9 In addition, our credit facilities and other financing agreements prohibit the payment of dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a result of the payment of such dividends. For more information regarding our financing arrangements, please read “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. In addition, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or if there is no surplus, from the net profits for the current and prior fiscal year, or while a company is insolvent or if it would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus or net profits in the future to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds, surplus or net profits to make distributions to us. As a result of these and other factors, we may pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future or the amounts of dividends which may be paid. We may have difficulty properly managing our growth through acquisitions of new or secondhand vessels and we may not realize expected benefits from these acquisitions, which may negatively impact our cash flows, liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We intend to grow our business by ordering newbuild vessels and through selective acquisitions of high-quality secondhand vessels to the extent that they are available. Our future growth will primarily depend on: • the operations of the shipyards that build any newbuild vessels we may order; • locating and identifying suitable high-quality secondhand vessels; • obtaining required financing on acceptable terms; • consummating vessel acquisitions; • enlarging our customer base; • hiring additional shore-based employees and seafarers; • continuing to meet technical and safety performance standards; and • managing joint ventures or significant acquisitions and integrating the new ships into our fleet. During periods in which charter rates are high, ships values are generally high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate ship acquisitions or enter into shipbuilding contracts at favorable prices. In addition, any vessel acquisition may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flows sufficient to justify the investment. We may not be successful in executing any future growth plans and we cannot give any assurance that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with such growth efforts. Other risks associated with vessel acquisitions that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results include the risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 10 Unlike newbuild vessels, secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for secondhand vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flows, liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our operations and results may be adversely affected by the Framework Agreement or by a default by our partner under the Framework Agreement. The joint venture governed by the Framework Agreement is the exclusive joint venture of the Company for the acquisition of new vessels during a commitment period ending May 15, 2015, unless terminated earlier in certain circumstances (although we may acquire vessels outside the joint venture where York rejects a vessel acquisition opportunity). If York decides to participate in a new vessel acquisition, we will hold a 25% to 49% equity interest in such vessel. An Amended and Restated Framework Agreement was executed by the parties thereto on October 1, 2014, which would extend the commitment period to May 15, 2020 and increase the range of our equity interest in each Joint Venture vessel to a range of 25% to 75%. Such Amended and Restated Framework Agreement will only become effective upon the closing of an initial public offering by Costamare Partners LP, our wholly- owned subsidiary, of common units representing limited partnership interests. There is no assurance that the proposed initial public offering will be consummated. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. The operation of the Framework Agreement may increase certain administrative burdens, delay decision-making, make it more difficult to obtain debt financing and complicate the operation of the vessels acquired under the Framework Agreement. For example, the Framework Agreement requires that decisions regarding the Joint Venture vessel’s acquisition be made jointly by Costamare and York. If York fails to cooperate in the acquisition process, we may not be able to consummate the acquisition in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, our managers may face conflicts of interest in the course of managing both our wholly-owned vessels and the Joint Venture vessels, the outcome of which may favor the Joint Venture vessels. Furthermore, if York were to delay or default in meeting its commitments under the Framework Agreement to provide equity or under any guarantee it provides to support a shipbuilding contract or a charter, our commercial relations with shipbuilders and charterers could be adversely affected. Under such circumstances, we may be required to provide additional funding. Delay in the delivery of our newbuild vessels on order, or any future newbuild vessel orders, could adversely affect our earnings. The expected delivery dates under our current shipbuilding contracts for newbuild vessels, and any additional shipbuilding contracts we may enter into in the future, may be delayed for reasons not under our control, including, among other things: • quality or engineering programs; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy of or other financial crisis involving the shipyard; • financial instability of the lenders under our committed credit facilities, resulting in potential delay or inability to draw down on such facilities; • financial instability of the charterers under our agreed time charters for the newbuild vessels, resulting in potential delay or inability to charter the newbuild vessels; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; 11 • any delay or default by our joint venture partner in meeting its financial commitments; • political, social or economic disturbances; • weather interference or a catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, fire or other accident; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; and • an inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If the seller of any newbuild vessel we have contracted to purchase is not able to deliver the vessel to us as agreed, or if we cancel a purchase agreement because a seller has not met his obligations, it may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Rising crew and other vessel operating costs may adversely affect our profits. Acquiring and renewing long-term time charters with leading liner companies depend on a number of factors, including our ability to man our containerships with suitably experienced, high-quality masters, officers and crews. Our success will depend in large part on our managers’ ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In recent years, the limited supply of and the increased demand for well-qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we bear under our time charters. Changing conditions in the home country of our seafarers, such as increases in the local general living standards or changes in taxation, may make serving at sea less appealing and thus further reduce the supply of crew. If we cannot retain sufficient numbers of quality onboard seafaring personnel, our fleet utilization will decrease, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Furthermore, increases in crew costs and other vessel operating costs such as insurance, repairs and maintenance, and lubricants may adversely affect our profitability. Fuel price fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates and can affect us in both direct and indirect ways. This cost will be borne by us when our containerships are employed on voyage charters or contracts of affreightment. We currently have no voyage charters or contracts of affreightment, but we may enter into such arrangements in the future, and to the extent we do so, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. Even where the cost of fuel is borne by the charterer, which is the case with all of our existing time charters, that cost will affect the level of charter rates that charterers are prepared to pay. Rising costs of fuel will make our older and less fuel efficient vessels less competitive compared to the more fuel efficient newer vessels and may limit their employment opportunities and force us to employ them at a discount compared to the charter rates commanded by more fuel efficient vessels or not at all. Falling costs of fuel may lead our charterers to abandon slow steaming, thereby releasing additional capacity into the market and exerting downward pressure on charter rates. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, economic or other sanctions levied against oil and gas producing countries, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and acquire vessels, which may reduce or eliminate the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance capital expenditures with cash balances or 12 credit facilities. In addition, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to acquire vessels in accordance with our growth strategy. Expenditures could increase as a result of, among other things, the cost of labor and materials, customer requirements and governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. Significant capital expenditures, including to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, may reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels may require longer and more expensive dry-dockings, resulting in more off-hire days and reduced revenue. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. In addition, older vessels are often less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our containerships may engage. Our current fleet of 68 containerships, including nine newbuild vessels on order, as of February 27, 2015, of which nine newbuilds and four existing vessels are Joint Venture vessels, had an average age (weighted by TEU capacity) of 7.9 years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify such expenditures or will enable us to profitably operate our older vessels. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of the useful lives of our vessels our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current fleet of 68 containerships, including nine newbuild vessels on order, as of February 27, 2015, of which nine newbuilds and four existing vessels are Joint Venture vessels, had an average age (weighted by TEU capacity) of 7.9 years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the older vessels in our fleet. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our containerships. The inability to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Containership values decreased significantly since 2008 and have remained at depressed levels through 2014. Containership values may decrease further and over time may fluctuate substantially. If these values are low at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we could incur a loss. Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in the markets in which containerships operate; • reduced demand for containerships, including as a result of a substantial or extended decline in world trade; • increases in the supply of containership capacity; • changes in prevailing charter rates; • the costs of building new vessels; and 13 • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships to respond to technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. If the market values of our vessels further deteriorate, we may be required to record an impairment charge in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any such deterioration in the market values of our vessels could trigger a breach under our credit facilities, which could adversely affect our operations. If a charter expires or is terminated, we may be unable to re-charter the vessel at an acceptable rate and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain the vessel, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on its sale and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing charterers, establish relationships with new customers and obtain new time charters, for which we will face substantial competition from new entrants and established companies with significant resources. One of our principal objectives is to acquire additional containerships in conjunction with entering into additional long-term, fixed-rate charters for these vessels. The process of obtaining new long-term, fixed-rate charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Generally, we compete for charters based upon charter rate, customer relationships, operating expertise, professional reputation and containership specifications, including size, age and condition. In addition, as vessels age, it can be more difficult to employ them on profitable time charters, particularly during periods of decreased demand in the charter market. Accordingly, we may find it difficult to continue to find profitable employment for our older vessels. We face substantial competition from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and financial organizations. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do, and can therefore operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. In the future, we may also face competition from reputable, experienced and well-capitalized marine transportation companies, including state-sponsored entities, that do not currently own containerships, but may choose to do so. Any increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters, as well as for the acquisition of high-quality secondhand vessels and newbuild vessels. Further, since the charter rate is generally considered to be one of the principal factors in a charterer’s decision to charter a vessel, the rates offered by our competitors can place downward pressure on rates throughout the charter market. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to re-charter our containerships, expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in the containership transportation business could reduce our ability to service our debt obligations and pay dividends to our stockholders. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from charters for our containerships. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the container shipping industry would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. An adverse development could also impair our ability to service debt or pay dividends to our stockholders. 14 We may have more difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate time charters if a more active short-term or spot container shipping market develops. One of our principal strategies is to enter into long-term, fixed-rate time charters in both strong and weak charter rate environments, although in weaker charter rate environments we would generally expect to target somewhat shorter charter terms. If more containerships become available for the spot or short-term charter market, we may have difficulty entering into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our containerships due to the increased supply of containerships and the possibility of lower rates in the spot market. We may then have to charter more of our containerships for shorter periods. As a result, our revenues, cash flows and profitability could then reflect fluctuations in the short-term charter market and become more volatile. In addition, an active short-term or spot charter market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on fixed rates, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and cash flows, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, if we enter into charters during periods when the market price for container shipping is depressed. We may be unable to re-charter our vessels at profitable rates, if at all, upon their time charter expiry. As of February 27, 2015, the current time charters for 19 of our 59 containerships in the water, including the charters for our four Joint Venture vessels in the water, will expire before the end of 2015. We have options to extend the charters for two of these vessels for successive one year periods. While we generally expect to be able to obtain time charters for our vessels within a reasonable period prior to their time charter expiry, we cannot be assured that this will occur in any particular case, or at all. In addition, demand for containerships may weaken and we may be unable to secure re- chartering rates that are as profitable as the current time charters. If we are unable to re-charter these containerships or obtain new time charters at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets, including our ships. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to pay our obligations and to make dividend payments depends entirely on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by the law of their respective jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of dividends. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. Our credit facilities or other financing arrangements contain payment obligations and restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and our ability to expand our fleet. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our credit facilities could result in an event of default under such credit facilities and foreclosure on our vessels. Our credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions in our existing credit facilities generally limit Costamare Inc., and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • pay dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a result of the payment of such dividends; • purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of our subsidiaries’ capital; • make or repay loans or advances, other than repayment of the credit facilities; • make investments in or provide guarantees to other persons; 15 • sell or transfer significant assets, including any vessel or vessels mortgaged under the credit facilities, to any person, including Costamare Inc. and our subsidiaries; • create liens on assets; or • allow the Konstantakopoulos family’s direct or indirect holding in Costamare Inc. to fall below 40% of the total issued share capital. Our existing credit facilities also require Costamare Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries to maintain the aggregate of (a) the market value, primarily on a charter inclusive basis, of the mortgaged vessel or vessels and (b) the market value of any additional security provided to the lenders, above a percentage ranging between 100% to 125% of the then outstanding amount of the credit facility and any related swap exposure. Costamare Inc. is required to maintain compliance with the following financial covenants: • the ratio of our total liabilities (after deducting all cash and cash equivalents) to market value adjusted total assets (after deducting all cash and cash equivalents) may not exceed 0.75:1; • the ratio of EBITDA over net interest expense must be equal to or higher than 2.5:1; • the aggregate amount of all cash and cash equivalents may not be less than the greater of (i) $30 million or (ii) 3% of the total debt; provided, however, that under two of our credit facilities, a minimum cash amount equal to 3% of the loan outstanding must be maintained in accounts with the lender; • the market value adjusted net worth must at all times exceed $500 million; and • the ratio of net funded debt to total net assets may not exceed 80% on a charter inclusive valuation basis. A failure to meet our payment and other obligations could lead to defaults under our credit facilities. Our lenders could then accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose on the vessels in our fleet securing those credit facilities, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. If any of these events occur, we cannot guarantee that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. The loss of these vessels would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. For additional information see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities and Finance Leases”. Substantial debt levels may limit our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding indebtedness of $1.77 billion, including the obligations under our finance leases, and we expect to incur additional indebtedness as we grow our fleet. This level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, thereby reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our stockholders; • our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able 16 to refinance all or part of our maturing debt on favorable terms, or at all. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or discontinuing dividend payments, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In the future we may change our operational and financial model by replacing amortizing debt in favor of non-amortizing debt with a higher fixed or floating rate without shareholder approval, which may increase our risk of defaulting on our indebtedness if market conditions become unfavorable. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and reductions in our stockholders’ equity, as well as charges against our income. We have entered into interest rate swaps generally for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our credit facilities which were advanced at floating rates based on LIBOR. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps relating to our fleet as of such date was $1.25 billion. We unwound three interest rate swaps in 2014 in connection with the refinancing of the underlying credit facility through the sale and leaseback transaction entered into with affiliates of CDB Leasing Company Ltd. (“CLC”). See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities and Finance Leases—CLC Sale and Leaseback”. From time to time we also enter into certain currency hedges. There is no assurance that our derivative contracts or any that we enter into in the future will provide adequate protection against adverse changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates or that our bank counterparties will be able to perform their obligations. In addition, as a result of the implementation of new regulation of the swaps markets in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere over the next few years, the cost of interest rate and currency hedges may increase or suitable hedges may not be available. While we monitor the credit risks associated with our bank counterparties, there can be no assurance that these counterparties would be able to meet their commitments under our derivative contracts or any future derivate contract. Our bank counterparties include financial institutions that are based in European Union countries that have faced and continue to face severe financial stress due to the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. The potential for our bank counterparties to default on their obligations under our derivative contracts may be highest when we are most exposed to the fluctuations in interest and currency rates such contracts are designed to hedge, and several or all of our bank counterparties may simultaneously be unable to perform their obligations due to the same events or occurrences in global financial markets. To the extent our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes we would recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, changes in the fair value of our derivative contracts are recognized in “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss” on our balance sheet, and can affect compliance with the net worth covenant requirements in our credit facilities. Changes in the fair value of our derivative contracts that do not qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting and financial reporting purposes affect, among other things, our net income, earnings per share and EBITDA coverage ratio. For additional information see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. Because we generate all of our revenues in United States dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a material impact on our financial performance. We generate all of our revenues in United States dollars and for the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred a substantial portion of our vessels’ operating expenses in currencies other than United States dollars. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income 17 due to changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the United States dollar falls in value could increase, thereby decreasing our net income. While we hedge some of this exposure from time to time, our U.S. dollar denominated results of operations and financial condition and ability to pay dividends could suffer from adverse currency exchange rate movements. Increased competition in technology and innovation could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors, including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed and fuel economy. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new ship designs currently promoted by shipyards as being more fuel efficient perform as promoted, or if new containerships are built in the future that are more efficient or flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect our ability to re-charter, the amount of charter hire payments that we receive for our containerships once their current time charters expire and the resale value of our containerships. This could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows, and our ability to service our debt or pay dividends to our stockholders. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international, national, state and local laws, regulations, conventions, treaties and standards in force in international waters and the jurisdictions in which our containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. We may incur substantial costs in complying with these requirements, including costs for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, it is difficult to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements or their impact on the resale value or useful lives of our containerships. Environmental requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, vessel modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of, or more costly insurance coverage for, environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and claims for natural resource damages, personal injury and/or property damages in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can also result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including criminal sanctions, and, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our containerships. Events of this nature or additional environmental conventions, laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The operation of vessels is based on the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management Code (the “ISM Code”). The ISM Code requires vessel managers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” (“SMS”) that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy, sets forth instructions and procedures for safe vessel operation and describes procedures for dealing with emergencies. The ISM Code requires that vessel operators obtain a Safety Management Certificate (“SMC”) for each vessel they operate from the government of the vessel’s flag state. The certificate verifies that the vessel operates in compliance with its 18 approved SMS. No vessel can obtain a certificate unless the flag state has issued a document of compliance with the ISM Code to the vessel’s manager. Failure to comply with the ISM Code may lead to withdrawal of the permit to operate or manage the vessels, subject us to increased liability, decrease or suspend available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, or result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of the containerships in our fleet and each of our affiliated managers and third-party managers are ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certifications can be maintained indefinitely. Governmental regulation of the shipping industry, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements for vessels. In complying with new environmental laws and regulations and other requirements that may be adopted, we may have to incur significant capital and operational expenditures to keep our containerships in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain containerships altogether. For additional information see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Risk of Loss and Liability Insurance—Environmental and Other Regulations”. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims or penalties which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our containership business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination, and certain trans-shipment points. These inspection procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers, and the levying of customs duties, fines and other penalties against us. Since the events of September 11, 2001, United States authorities have substantially increased container inspections. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers, that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. Also, as a response to the events of September 11, 2001, additional vessel security requirements have been imposed, including the installation of security alert and automatic identification systems on board vessels. It is unclear what additional changes, if any, to the existing inspection and security procedures may ultimately be proposed or implemented in the future, or how any such changes will affect the industry. It is possible that such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection and security procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of goods in containers uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The operation of our vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”). The ISPS Code requires vessels to 19 develop and maintain a ship security plan that provides security measures to address potential threats to the security of ships or port facilities. Although each of our containerships is ISPS Code-certified, any failure to comply with the ISPS Code or maintain such certifications may subject us to increased liability and may result in denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Furthermore, compliance with the ISPS Code requires us to incur certain costs. Although such costs have not been material to date, if new or more stringent regulations relating to the ISPS Code are adopted by the IMO and the flag states, these requirements could require significant additional capital expenditures or otherwise increase the costs of our operations. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of the jurisdiction where one or more of our containerships are registered could requisition for title or seize our containerships. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our containerships for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a ship and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would expect to be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment, if any, would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our containerships may cause us to breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The global financial markets continue to experience economic instability resulting from terrorist attacks, regional armed conflicts and general political unrest. Terrorist attacks in certain parts of the world over the last decade, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty and volatility in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, current conflicts in Afghanistan and general political unrest in Ukraine, certain African nations and the Middle East may lead to additional regional conflicts and acts of terrorism around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. Political tension or conflicts in the Asia Pacific Region may also reduce the demand for our services. These uncertainties, as well as future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade, could also affect trade volumes and patterns and adversely affect our operations, our ability to obtain financing and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in certain regions of the world, such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Piracy continues to occur in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea. Although both the frequency and success of attacks have diminished recently, we still consider potential acts of piracy to be a material risk to the international container shipping industry, and protection against this risk requires vigilance. Our vessels regularly travel through regions where pirates are active. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Crew costs could also increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from acts of terrorism, piracy, regional conflicts and other armed actions. 20 Risks inherent in the operation of ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our expenses, net income, cash flow and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • cargo and property loss or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, or adverse weather conditions; and • work stoppages or other labor problems with crew members serving on our containerships, some of whom are unionized and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, litigation with our employees, customers or third parties, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Although we maintain hull and machinery and war risks insurance, as well as protection and indemnity insurance, which may cover certain risks of loss resulting from such occurrences, our insurance coverage may be subject to caps or not cover such losses, and any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. On October 5, 2011, our vessel Rena ran aground on the Astrolabe Reef off New Zealand and sustained significant damage. The vessel was determined to be a constructive total loss for insurance purposes. While we anticipate that our insurance policies will cover most costs and losses associated with the incident, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all risks. As a result, claims against us or our subsidiaries as a result of the grounding of the Rena could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of any vessel includes risks such as mechanical failure, collision, fire, contact with floating objects, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of a marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps. There are also liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We procure insurance for our fleet of containerships in relation to risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes (i) hull and machinery insurance covering damage to our and third-party vessels’ hulls and machinery from, among other things, collisions and contact with fixed and floating objects, (ii) war risks insurance covering losses associated with the outbreak or escalation of hostilities and (iii) protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage) covering, among other things, third-party and crew liabilities such as expenses resulting from the injury or death of crew members, passengers and other third parties, the loss or damage to cargo, third-party claims arising from collisions with other vessels, damage to other third-party property and pollution arising from oil or other substances. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a timely replacement containership in the event of a loss of a containership. Under the terms of our credit facilities, we are subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds we may receive from claims under our insurance policies. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be 21 able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage. There is no cap on our liability exposure for such calls or premiums payable to our protection and indemnity association. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain required certification. We do not carry loss of hire insurance. Loss of hire insurance covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled dry-docking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or any extended period of vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers or receivers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, including, in some jurisdictions, for debts incurred by previous owners. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien-holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels, if such arrest or attachment is not timely discharged, could cause us to default on a charter or breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities, could interrupt our cash flows and could require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one containership in our fleet for claims relating to another of our containerships. Compliance with safety and other requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the classification society. Moreover, every vessel must comply with all applicable international conventions and the regulations of the vessel’s flag state as verified by a classification society. Finally, each vessel must successfully undergo periodic surveys, including annual, intermediate and special surveys. If any vessel does not maintain its class, it will lose its insurance coverage and be unable to trade, and the vessel’s owner will be in breach of relevant covenants under its financing arrangements. Failure to maintain the class of one or more of our containerships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our cash flows, including cash available to pay dividends to stockholders. 22 Our business depends upon certain members of our senior management who may not necessarily continue to work for us. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon our chairman and chief executive officer, Konstantinos Konstantakopoulos, certain members of our senior management and our managers. Mr. Konstantakopoulos has substantial experience in the container shipping industry and has worked with us and our managers for many years. He, our managers and certain of our senior management team are crucial to the execution of our business strategies and to the growth and development of our business. If these individuals were no longer to be affiliated with us or our managers, or if we were to otherwise cease to receive services from them, we may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our arrangements with our chief executive officer restrict his ability to compete with us, and such restrictive covenants generally may be unenforceable. Konstantinos Konstantakopoulos, our chairman and chief executive officer, has entered into a restrictive covenant agreement with us on November 3, 2010, under which, except for in certain limited circumstances, he is precluded during the term of his service and for six months thereafter from owning containerships and from acquiring or investing in a business that owns such vessels without first offering the same to us. It also requires him to offer certain charters to our vessels where the charter is suitable for both our vessel and a vessel he owns outside of Costamare. In addition, the restrictive covenant agreement is governed by English Law, and English law generally does not favor the enforcement of such restrictions which are considered contrary to public policy and facially are void for being in restraint of trade. Our ability to enforce these restrictions, should it ever become necessary, will depend upon us establishing that there is a legitimate proprietary interest that is appropriate to protect, and that the protection sought is no more than is reasonable, having regard to the interests of the parties and the public interest. We cannot give any assurance that a court would enforce the restrictions as written by way of an injunction or that we could necessarily establish a case for damages as a result of a violation of the restrictive covenants agreement. We depend on our managers to operate our business, and if our managers fail to satisfactorily perform their management services, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends may be harmed. Pursuant to the group management agreement between Costamare Shipping Company S.A. (“Costamare Shipping”) and us (the “Group Management Agreement”) and the individual ship-management agreements pertaining to each vessel, our managers provide us with, among other things, certain commercial, technical and administrative services and may provide us with certain of our officers. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Management of Our Fleet” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Management Agreement”. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon our managers’ satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if such entities fail to perform these services satisfactorily or if they stop providing these services. Costamare Shipping, one of our managers, also owns the Costamare trademarks, which consist of the name “COSTAMARE” and the Costamare logo, and has agreed to license each trademark to us on a royalty free basis for the life of the Group Management Agreement. If the Group Management Agreement were to be terminated or if its terms were to be altered, our business could be adversely affected, as we may not be able to immediately replace such services, and even if replacement services were immediately available, the terms offered could be less favorable than the ones offered by our managers. Our ability to compete for and enter into new time charters and to expand our relationships with our existing charterers depends largely on our relationship with our managers and their reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If our managers suffer material damage to their reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: 23 • renew existing time charters upon their expiration; • obtain new time charters; • successfully interact with shipyards; • obtain financing and other contractual arrangements with third parties on commercially acceptable terms (therefore potentially increasing operating expenditure for the fleet); • maintain satisfactory relationships with our charterers and suppliers; • operate our fleet efficiently; or • successfully execute our business strategies. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our cash flows. We may not realize expected benefits from the Co-operation Agreement with V.Ships Greece, which may negatively impact our business. On January 7, 2013, Costamare Shipping entered into a Co-operation Agreement (the “Co-operation Agreement”) with V.Ships Greece Ltd. (“V.Ships Greece”), a member of V.Group, pursuant to which the two companies established a ship-management cell (the “Cell”) under V.Ships Greece to serve as sub-manager of certain of our vessels. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Management of Our Fleet”. Costamare Shipping passes to us the net profit, if any, it receives from V.Ships Greece pursuant to the Co-operation Agreement as a refund or reduction of the management fees payable by us to Costamare Shipping. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the arrangement with V.Ships Greece, which include the Cell’s effective management of certain of our vessels, the generation of net profit by the Cell, a portion of which is passed on to us, and the reduction of our ship-management expenditures. Also, Costamare Shipping or V.Ships Greece may terminate the Co-operation Agreement upon six months’ notice. Our managers are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. The ability of our managers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our managers’ financial strength, and because they are privately held companies, information about their financial strength is not publicly available. As a result, an investor in our stock might have little advance warning of problems affecting any of our managers, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. As part of our reporting obligations as a public company, we will disclose information regarding our managers that has a material impact on us to the extent that we become aware of such information. Our chairman and chief executive officer has affiliations with our managers and others that could create conflicts of interest between us and our managers or other entities in which he has an interest. The Group Management Agreement is between us and Costamare Shipping, which is controlled by our chairman and chief executive officer, Konstantinos Konstantakopoulos. While we believe that the terms of the Group Management Agreement are consistent with normal commercial practice of the industry, the agreement was not negotiated at arms’ length by non-related parties. Accordingly, the terms may be less favorable to the Company than if such terms were obtained from a non-related third party. Additionally, Konstantinos Konstantakopoulos directly or indirectly controls our managers and is our chairman and chief executive officer and the owner of approximately 21.59% of our common stock, and this relationship could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and our managers, on the other hand. These conflicts, which are addressed in the Group Management Agreement and the restrictive covenant agreement between us and our chairman and chief executive officer, may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operation of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned or chartered-in by other companies affiliated with our 24 managers or our chairman and chief executive officer. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Management of Our Fleet” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Restrictive Covenant Agreements”. Additionally, Konstantinos Konstantakopoulos holds a passive minority interest in certain companies controlled by the family of Dimitrios Lemonidis that own five containerships comparable to 15 of our vessels and may acquire additional vessels. These vessels may compete with the Company’s vessels for chartering opportunities. These investments were entered into following the review and approval of our Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Certain of our managers are permitted to provide management services to vessels owned by third parties that compete with us, which could result in conflicts of interest or otherwise adversely affect our business. Shanghai Costamare is not prohibited from providing management services to vessels owned by third parties, including related parties, that may compete with us for charter opportunities. In addition, the Cell under V.Ships Greece actively seeks to provide management services to vessels owned by third parties that may compete with us. We have also consented to Costamare Shipping providing management services in respect of the Joint Venture vessels that are similar to and compete with our vessels. Our managers’ provision of management services to third parties, including related parties, that may compete with our vessels could give rise to conflicts of interest or adversely affect the ability of these managers to provide the level of service that we require. Conflicts of interest with respect to certain services, including sale and purchase and chartering activities, among others, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Shanghai Costamare has only provided management services to third parties in a limited number of cases in the past and currently does not provide any such services to third parties. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government, the European Union, the United Nations and other governments, which could negatively affect the trading price of our shares of common stock. The United States, the European Union, the United Nations and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries and maintain lists of countries, individuals or entities they consider to be state sponsors of terrorism. From time to time on charterers’ instructions, our vessels have called and may again call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. For example, in 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as the Company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608, which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. The Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit any transactions or dealings, including any U.S. capital markets financing, involving any person found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608. Also in 2012, the U.S. enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (the “ITRA”), which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the ITRA intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector. The ITRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 25 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person’s vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. The ITRA also includes a requirement that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports if the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. Finally, in January 2013, the U.S. enacted the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (the “IFCPA”), which expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions on any person that is part of Iran’s energy, shipping or shipbuilding sector and operators of ports in Iran, and imposes penalties on any person who facilitates or otherwise knowingly provides significant financial, material or other support to these entities. From January 2010 through December 2014, vessels in our fleet made a total of 157 calls to ports in Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, representing approximately 0.83% of our approximately 18,904 calls on worldwide ports. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that may involve our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, the PCAOB is prevented from evaluating our auditor’s performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike stockholders of most U.S. public companies, we and our stockholders are deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. We are a Marshall Islands corporation, and the Marshall Islands does not have a well developed body of corporate law or a bankruptcy act, and, as a result, stockholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under the laws of a jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the “BCA”). The provisions of the BCA are similar to provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Stockholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states 26 with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. The Marshall Islands has no established bankruptcy act, and as a result, any bankruptcy action involving our company would have to be initiated outside the Marshall Islands, and our public stockholders may find it difficult or impossible to pursue their claims in such other jurisdictions. It may be difficult or impossible to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Marshall Islands corporation and all of our subsidiaries are, and will likely be, incorporated in jurisdictions outside the United States. In addition, our executive offices are located outside of the United States in Athens, Greece. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of most of our officers and directors are, and will likely be, located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or our subsidiaries’ assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. Federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. There is also substantial doubt that the courts of the Marshall Islands or Greece would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. Federal or state securities laws. The formation of Costamare Partners LP, a master limited partnership, or the “MLP”, for purposes of the proposed initial public offering may involve issuance of interests to third parties representing a substantial portion of our assets. On October 2, 2014, we filed a registration statement on Form F-1 with the SEC (which registration statement was subsequently amended and re-filed on October 23, 2014, November 12, 2014 and January 30, 2015) for an initial public offering of common units representing limited liability partner interests in Costamare Partners LP, a master limited partnership formed to own, operate and acquire containerships under long-term, fixed-rate charters. The registration statement has not yet been declared effective by the SEC. If we complete the proposed MLP initial public offering, we would contribute 100% interests in certain entities which own a 100% interest in four of our vessels to the MLP on terms with which you may not agree or may believe are not in the best interests of the holders of our common stock. The MLP would issue equity securities to public or private investors and apply part of the proceeds to reduce ship-related indebtedness. While any such transaction would reduce our overall indebtedness, it would also reduce our rights to cash flows related to the transferred vessels. There is no assurance that the proposed MLP initial public offering will be consummated. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Fleet, Acquisitions and Newbuild Vessels”. Risks Relating to our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to various factors including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • fluctuations in the seaborne transportation industry, including fluctuations in the containership market; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; 27 • market conditions in the shipping industry; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • our payment of dividends; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our stock or other securities; • investors’ perception of us and the containership transportation industry; • the general state of the securities market; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. The containership sector of the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. Securities markets worldwide are experiencing significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may also be volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Consequently, you may not be able to sell our common stock at prices equal to or greater than those at which you pay or paid. Our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices. Our directors, management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations relating to public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent auditors. We have undertaken the required review to comply with Section 404, including the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls under the direction of our management. While we did not identify any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls under the current assessment, we cannot be certain at this time that all our controls will be considered effective in future assessments. Therefore, we can give no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting will satisfy the new regulatory requirements in the future. We are a “foreign private issuer” and “controlled company” under the NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the securities laws of the United States, “foreign private issuers” are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the 28 NYSE. In addition, members of the Konstantakopoulos family continue to own, in the aggregate, a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company or group is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement of an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. As permitted by these exemptions, as well as by our bylaws and the laws of the Marshall Islands, we currently have a board of directors with a majority of non-independent directors, an audit committee comprised solely of two independent directors and a combined corporate governance, nominating and compensation committee with one non-independent director serving as a committee chairman. As a result, non-independent directors, including members of our management who also serve on our board of directors, may, among other things, fix the compensation of our management, make stock and option awards and resolve governance issues regarding our company. Accordingly, in the future you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock, and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: • our existing stockholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the dividend amount payable per share on our common stock may be lower; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and • the market price of our common stock may decline. Our stockholders also may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. The number of shares of common stock and Preferred Stock available for sale in the public market will be limited by restrictions applicable under securities laws, and agreements that we and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders may enter into with the underwriters at the time of an offering. Subject to certain exceptions, these agreements generally restrict us and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders from directly or indirectly offering, selling, pledging, hedging or otherwise disposing of our equity securities or any security that is convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our equity securities and from engaging in certain other transactions relating to such securities for an agreed period after the date of an offering prospectus without the prior written consent of the underwriter(s). Our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock are subordinated to our debt obligations and pari passu with each other, and your interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including additional Series B and Series C Preferred Stock, and by other transactions. Our Preferred Stock is subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.77 billion, including the 29 obligations under our finance leases. Our existing indebtedness restricts, and our future indebtedness may include restrictions on, our ability to pay dividends to preferred stockholders. Our charter currently authorizes the issuance of up to 100 million shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series. Of this preferred stock, 84 million shares remain available for issuance after giving effect to the designation of 10 million shares as Series A Participating Preferred Stock in connection with our adoption of a stockholder rights plan, the issuance of two million shares as Series B Preferred Stock and the issuance of four million shares as Series C Preferred Stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on a parity with or senior to our Preferred Stock would dilute the interests of the holders of our Preferred Stock, and any issuance of preferred stock senior to or on a parity with our Preferred Stock or of additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our common stock and our Preferred Stock. No provisions relating to our Preferred Stock protect the holders of our Preferred Stock in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, which might adversely affect the holders of our Preferred Stock. Holders of Preferred Stock have extremely limited voting rights. Our common stock is the only class of our stock carrying full voting rights. Holders of the Preferred Stock generally have no voting rights except (1) in respect of amendments to the Articles of Incorporation which would adversely alter the preferences, powers or rights of the Preferred Stock or (2) in the event that the Company proposes to issue any parity stock if the cumulative dividends payable on outstanding Preferred Stock are in arrears or any senior stock. However, if and whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock are in arrears for six or more quarterly periods, whether or not consecutive, holders of Preferred Stock (for this purpose the Series B and Series C Preferred Stock will vote together as a single class with all other classes or series of parity stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to elect one additional director to serve on our board of directors, and the size of our board of directors will be increased as needed to accommodate such change (unless the size of our board of directors already has been increased by reason of the election of a director by holders of parity stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and with which the Preferred Stock voted as a class for the election of such director). The right of such holders of Preferred Stock to elect a member of our board of directors will continue until such time as all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock have been paid in full. The Preferred Stock represents perpetual equity interests and you will have no right to receive any greater payment than the liquidation preference regardless of the circumstances. The Preferred Stock represents perpetual equity interests in us and, unlike our indebtedness, will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Preferred Stock may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Preferred Stock for an indefinite period of time. The payment due upon a liquidation is fixed at the redemption preference of $25.00 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends to the date of liquidation. If, in the case of our liquidation, there are remaining assets to be distributed after payment of this amount, you will have no right to receive or to participate in these amounts. Furthermore, if the market price for your Preferred Stock is greater than the liquidation preference, you will have no right to receive the market price from us upon our liquidation. Members of the Konstantakopoulos family are our principal existing stockholders and will control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote; their interests may be different from yours. Members of the Konstantakopoulos family own, directly or indirectly, approximately 64.8% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate. These stockholders will be able to control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our 30 entire board of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of each of these stockholders may be different from yours. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of our management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorize the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote for those directors; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all stockholders entitled to vote on the action; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including the provisions of our stockholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—Marshall Islands Tax Considerations”, “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—Liberian Tax Considerations” and “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the material Marshall Islands, Liberian and U.S. Federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of our common stock and Preferred Stock. We may have to pay tax on U.S.-source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), the U.S. source gross transportation income of a ship-owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves, is subject to a 4% U.S. Federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. U.S. source gross transportation income consists of 50% of the gross shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. We believe that we have qualified and currently intend to continue to qualify for this statutory tax exemption for the foreseeable future. However, no assurance can be given that this will be the case. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% U.S. Federal income tax on 31 our U.S. source gross transportation income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. Some of our time charters contain provisions pursuant to which charterers undertake to reimburse us for the 4% gross basis tax on our U.S. source gross transportation income. For a more detailed discussion, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of Our Shipping Income”. If we were treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, certain adverse U.S. Federal income tax consequences could result to U.S. stockholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”), for U.S. Federal income tax purposes if at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income”, or at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income”. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income”. U.S. stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. Federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, we will provide information to U.S. stockholders who request such information to enable them to make certain elections to alleviate certain of the adverse U.S. Federal income tax consequences that would arise as a result of holding an interest in a PFIC. Based on our proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income”, and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. Our counsel, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, is of the opinion that we should not be a PFIC based on certain assumptions made by them as well as certain representations we made to them regarding the composition of our assets, the source of our income, and the nature of our operations. There is, however, no legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. stockholders would face adverse tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make certain elections available under the Code, such stockholders would be liable to pay U.S. Federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock or Preferred Stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period. Please read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of United States Holders—PFIC Status” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. Federal income tax consequences to U.S. stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. The enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute “qualified dividend income” eligible for the preferential rates. Legislation has been proposed in the United States Senate that would deny the preferential rates of U.S. Federal income tax currently imposed on “qualified dividend income” with respect to 32 dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation, unless the non-U.S. corporation either is eligible for benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States or is created or organized under the laws of a foreign country which has a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands has not entered into a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States and imposes only limited taxes on corporations organized under its laws, it is unlikely that we could satisfy either of these requirements. Consequently, if this legislation were enacted in its current form the preferential rates of U.S. Federal income tax discussed in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of United States Holders—Distributions on Our Common Stock and Preferred Stock” may no longer be applicable to dividends received from us. As of the date of this annual report, it is not possible to predict with certainty whether or in what form the proposed legislation will be enacted. 33 