D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to us, the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends payable to holders of our common stock or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile, with charter hire rates and profitability currently at depressed levels, and the recent global economic recession has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping, which may negatively impact our operations. Our growth generally depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for container shipping services, and the recent global economic slowdown has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping and a related decrease in charter rates. 6 The ocean-going container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. Containership charter rates peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the recent economic crisis began to affect global container trade. Containership charter rates declined substantially in 2011 and 2012 primarily as a result of excess capacity on the key east-west routes, the reluctance of liners to cull services in the first six months of the year and a fight for market share between certain liner companies. Freight rates and charter rates stabilized somewhat in the second half of 2012, particularly for larger vessel sizes, but in early 2013 they remain significantly below their historical averages. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply of and demand for containership capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for the major products internationally transported by containerships. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for containerships and supply of and demand for products shipped in containers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: · supply of and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; · changes in global production of products transported by containerships; · the distance container cargo products are to be moved by sea; · the globalization of manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older containerships; · containership owner access to capital to finance the construction of newbuildings; · the price of steel and other raw materials; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; · the number of containerships that are slow-steaming to conserve fuel; · the number of containerships that are out of service; and · port congestion and canal closures. 7 Our ability to charter additional vessels we may acquire in the future and recharter our containerships upon the expiration or termination of their current charters, including the Box Trader, which is currently employed on a short-term time charter scheduled to expire between April 2013 and October 2013, (subject to the charterer’s option to extend the term of the charter by an additional one-year term, plus or minus 30 days), and the Box Voyager, which is currently employed on a short-term time charter scheduled to expire between July 2013 and March 2014, and the charter rates payable under any charters or renewal options or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the containership charter market, which can be affected by consumer demand for products shipped in containers. If the charter market is depressed when our containerships’ charters expire, as was the case when the charters for the Box Trader and the Box Voyager with Compania Sud Americana De Vapores S.A., or CSAV Valparaiso, expired in the second and third quarter of 2012, respectively, we may be forced to recharter our containerships at reduced or even unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to recharter our vessels at all, which may reduce or eliminate our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will exist if we acquire additional vessels and attempt to obtain multi-year time charter arrangements as part of our acquisition and financing plan, which may affect our ability to operate our vessels profitably. The containership market also affects the value of our vessels, which follow the trends of freight rates and containership rates. Liner companies, which are the most significant charterers of containerships, have been placed under significant financial pressure, thereby increasing our charter counterparty risk. The decline in global trade due to the economic slowdown has resulted in a significant decline in demand for the seaborne transportation of products in containers, including for exports from China to Europe and the United States. Consequently, the cargo volumes and freight rates achieved by liner companies, which charter containerships from ship owners like us, declined sharply in the second half of 2011, and continued to be weak throughout 2012, especially for medium to smaller size containerships. Freight rates have stabilized toward the end of 2012, although charter rates continued their declines in 2012 and remain significantly below their historical averages, which has adversely affected the profitability of liner companies. The financial challenges faced by liner companies and efforts to obtain third party aid to restructure their obligations, have reduced demand for containership charters and may increase the likelihood of our customers being unable or unwilling to pay us the contracted charter rates. The combination of the current surplus of containership capacity and the expected increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next several years may make it difficult to secure substitute employment for our containerships if our counterparties fail to perform their obligations under our time charters, and any new charter arrangements we are able to secure may be at lower rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. We are dependent on a limited number of customers in a consolidating industry for a large part of our revenues. The loss of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. Subject to certain extension options available to the charterers, the Box Trader, one of our two 2010-built 3,400 TEU containerships, is currently employed on a short-term time charter with Hapag Lloyd scheduled to expire between April 2013 and October 2013, the Box Voyager, our other 2010-built 3,400 TEU containership, is currently employed on a short-term time charter with Chenglie Navigation Co. Ltd, or CNC, a part of the CMA CGM Group, that is scheduled to expire between July 2013 and March 2014, our two 2007-built 5,100 TEU containerships, the CMA CGM Kingfish and the CMA CGM Marlin, are employed on time charters to CMA CGM scheduled to expire in 2014, the Maersk Diadema, formerly the MSC Siena, our 4,500 TEU 2006-built containership, and the MSC Emma, our 5,060 TEU 2004-built containership, are currently employed on time charters with A.P. Moller—Maersk A/S, or Maersk and Mediterranean Shipping Co. S.A., or MSC, respectively, that are scheduled to expire in 2014, the OOCL Hong Kong and the OOCL China, our 5,344 TEU containerships built in 1995 and 1996, respectively, are employed on time charters to Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd., or OOCL, scheduled to expire in 2015 and the Maule, our 6,500 TEU 2010-built containership, is employed on a time charter with CSAV Valparaiso scheduled to expire in 2016. 8 With any improvement in the charter market, we will seek to re-employ our containerships upon the termination or expiration of the charters described above, and to employ any additional vessels we acquire, pursuant to medium- and long-term fixed-rate time charters with leading liner companies, and we may remain dependent upon a limited number of liner operators. In recent years, some liner companies, including our charterers, have publicly acknowledged the financial difficulties they face, announced efforts to obtain third-party aid to restructure their obligations and reported substantial losses. Many liner companies reported losses during 2012, although slightly improved from the significant losses liner companies incurred in 2011. In addition, in recent years there have been significant examples of consolidation in the container shipping industry, including recently announced alliances between major liner companies; at present, there are over 200 liner companies, but according to industry sources, the top 10 and top 20 companies, including subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 66% and 87% of global liner capacity, respectively, as of February 2013. Financial difficulties in the industry may accelerate the trend towards consolidation. The cessation of business with these liner companies or their failure to fulfill their obligations under the charters for our containerships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our cash flows, and our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all. An over-supply of containership capacity may lead to a further reduction in charter rates, which may limit our ability to operate our vessels profitably. The size of the containership orderbook is large relative to historical levels and will result in the increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years. An over-supply of containership capacity, combined with a decline in the demand for containerships, may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates, which could impact the rate at which we are able to recharter our current fleet or charter any additional vessels we acquire. If such a reduction continues in the future, we may only be able to recharter vessels in our current fleet, including the charters for two of our vessels that are scheduled to expire in April 2013 and July 2013 (assuming no exercise of any options to extend the durations of the charters), or charter any additional vessels we acquire, for reduced rates or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to recharter our containerships, or charter any additional vessels we acquire, at all. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our operations and our ability to implement our growth successfully. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy is currently facing a number of new challenges, including uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the U.S. federal debt ceiling and the so-called “fiscal cliff,” the combination of expiring tax cuts and mandatory reduction in federal spending, along with widespread skepticism about the implementation of any resulting agreements, and recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. Continuing economic instability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy. The United States, the European Union and other parts of the world have recently been or are currently in a recession and continue to exhibit weak economic trends. The credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state governments and European authorities have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, severely disrupted and volatile. Credit markets and the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to implement our growth successfully. 9 Continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP is estimated to have decreased for the third year in a row to approximately 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2012 and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our operations and ability to implement our growth successfully would be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. A decrease in the level of China's export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterers' business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our containerships may be deployed on routes involving containerized trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterers' container shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China's exports and on our charterers' business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese-made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for container shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If the incipient global recovery is undermined by downside risks and the recent economic downturn is prolonged, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve has caused and may continue to cause an increase in (i) the cost of goods exported from China; (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China; and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterers' business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. 10 The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms which may hinder or prevent us from expanding our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, the debt and equity capital markets have been severely distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain additional financing. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions might adversely impact our ability to issue additional equity at prices which will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders or preclude us from issuing equity at all. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. Vessel values may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our financial condition, result in the incurrence of a loss upon disposal of a vessel or increase the cost of acquiring additional vessels. Vessel values may fluctuate due to a number of different factors, including: general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; competition from other shipping companies; the types and sizes of available vessels; the availability of other modes of transportation; increases in the supply of vessel capacity; the cost of newbuildings; governmental or other regulations; prevailing freight rates, which are the rates paid to the shipowner by the charterer under a voyage charter, usually calculated either per ton loaded or as a lump sum amount; and the need to upgrade second hand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the container market, if for any reason we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Moreover, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions we may incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The containership industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully for charters with established companies or new entrants that may have greater resources and access to capital, which may have a material adverse affect on us. The containership industry is a highly competitive industry that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom may have greater resources and access to capital than we have. Competition among vessel owners for the seaborne transportation of semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products can be intense and depends on the charter rate, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, many of our competitors with greater resources and access to capital than we have could operate larger fleets than we may operate and thus be able to offer lower charter rates or higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to retain or attract new charterers on attractive terms or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. 11 An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Vessel operating expenses include the costs of crew, provisions, deck and engine stores, lube oil, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures implemented after September 11, 2001 and as a result of a recent increase in the frequency of acts of piracy, have been increasing. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates and will be borne by us when our containerships are employed on voyage charters or contracts of affreightment. We currently have no voyage charters or contracts of affreightment, but we may enter into such arrangements in the future, and to the extent we do so, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply of and demand for oil, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our container shipping business. International container shipping is subject to additional security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have significantly increased the levels of inspection for all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for containerships. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for containership owners and operators. Any additional costs or a decrease in container volumes could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract customers and therefore have an adverse impact on our ability to operate our vessels profitably. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. 12 A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. This could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operations of our containerships will be materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of any containership that we will acquire. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. For example, the cost of compliance with any new regulation that may be adopted by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change may be substantial or we may face substantial taxes on bunkers. Additionally, we cannot predict the costs of compliance with any new laws or regulations that may be adopted by the United States as a result of the 2010 BP plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we will be required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and our compliance with these requirements could be costly. Environmental requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous substances associated with our existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. The operation of our containerships will also be affected by the requirements set forth in the International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Failure to comply with the ISM Code may subject us to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected ships and may result in denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our success depends in large part on the ability of Allseas Marine S.A., or Allseas or our Manager, a company controlled by our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, that is responsible for the technical and commercial management of the vessels in our fleet, and us to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any inability we, or our Manager, experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failures; · fire, explosions or collisions; · human error; · war; · terrorism; and · piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may also harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We operate substantially outside the United States, which will expose us to political and governmental instability, which could harm our operations. Our operations are primarily conducted outside the United States and may be adversely affected by changing or adverse political and governmental conditions in the countries where our vessels are flagged or registered and in the regions where we otherwise engage in business. Any disruption caused by these factors may interfere with the operation of our vessels, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Past political efforts to disrupt shipping in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships and mining of waterways. In addition, terrorist attacks outside this region, such as the attacks that occurred against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001, Spain on March 11, 2004, London on July 7, 2005, Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and continuing hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Middle East and the world may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbance in the United States and elsewhere, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. Any such attacks, conflict or disturbances may disrupt our business, increase vessel operating costs, including insurance costs, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all and pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Our operations may also be adversely affected by expropriation of vessels, taxes, regulation, tariffs, trade embargoes, economic sanctions or a disruption of or limit to trading activities or other adverse events or circumstances in or affecting the countries and regions where we operate or where we may operate in the future. 14 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, West Africa and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2012 to its lowest level since 2009, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as “war risk” zones by insurers, or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we enter into charter agreements or engage in certain other activities with countries or government-controlled entities or customers associated with countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, or engage in certain other activities, our ability to conduct business and access U.S. capital markets and our reputation and the market for our securities could be adversely affected. Although no vessels operated by us have called on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and other authorities or countries identified by the U.S. government or other authorities as state sponsors of terrorism, including Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, in the future our vessels may call on ports in these countries from time to time on our charterers' instructions. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which amended the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA introduced limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. 15 Although we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to European Union regulations, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1990, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. Additionally, we cannot predict the cost of compliance with any new regulations that may be promulgated as a result of the 2010 BP plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 16 These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. We may not maintain sufficient insurance to cover all environmental risks and environmental claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all. Company Specific Risk Factors In the past we have not been, and in the future we may not be, in compliance with certain of the financial covenants contained in our loan agreements, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all. Our loan agreements, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, require us to comply with specified collateral coverage ratios and satisfy certain financial and other covenants. In general, these financial covenants require us, among other things, to maintain (i) a maximum market adjusted leverage ratio; (ii) minimum liquidity; (iii) a maximum ratio of total liabilities to EBITDA; (iv) a minimum market value adjusted net worth or net worth; (v) a minimum ratio of EBITDA to net interest expenses; and (vi) a maximum ratio of total debt to EBITDA. A violation of any of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our loan agreements, which, unless waived or modified by our lenders, provide our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities, accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In addition, all of our secured loan agreements contain a cross-default provision that may be triggered by a default under one of our other secured loan agreements. A cross-default provision means that a default on one loan would result in a default on all other loans. Because of the presence of cross default provisions in all of our secured loan agreements, the refusal of any one lender under our secured loan agreements to grant or extend a waiver could result in all of our secured indebtedness being accelerated, even if our other lenders under our secured loan agreements have waived covenant defaults under the respective loan and credit facilities. If our secured indebtedness is accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. Furthermore, under the terms of our loan agreements, our ability to pay dividends or make other payments to shareholders is subject to no event of default having occurred without being remedied or resulting from the payment of such dividends or other distributions. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” 17 As of December 31, 2011, we were not in compliance with the net worth covenant contained in our $30.3 million loan agreement with Commerzbank AG, or Commerzbank, which requires us to maintain a minimum net worth of at least $150.0 million. This breach was cured as the loan agreement was amended. The amended loan agreement requires that the net worth be above $130.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, above $125.0 million in the first quarter of 2012, above $130.0 million in the second through fourth quarters of 2012 and be restored to at least $150.0 million with effect from January 1, 2013. This breach constituted an event of default under our loan agreement with Commerzbank and, absent the waiver, together with the cross-default provisions in our secured loan agreements discussed above, could have resulted in the lenders requiring immediate repayment of all of our secured loans. There can be no assurance that our lenders would permit further amendments to this loan agreement in the event we are not able to comply with the net worth covenant in the future. Moreover, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements in connection with any additional waivers of or amendments to our loan agreements that we may obtain in the future as a result of additional breaches of the financial and other covenants contained in our secured loan agreements,. These restrictions may restrict our ability to, among other things, pay dividends, make capital expenditures or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. In addition, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with all of the covenants contained in our loan agreements. Our secured loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities, including the payment of dividends. In addition to certain covenants relating to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity, the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our secured loan agreements could adversely affect our capital needs or ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements may restrict our ability to: · incur and guarantee additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · change our ownership or structure, including engaging in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions; · adjust and alter existing charters; · enter into a new line of business; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; · appoint a Chairman or Chief Executive Officer other than Michael Bodouroglou or change the composition of our board of directors or executive management without the prior written consent of our lenders; 18 · terminate our charters prior to their stated termination dates; and · sell, transfer, assign or convey assets. In addition, under these covenants, we are required to maintain minimum liquidity ranging between the greater of $750,000 per vessel owned and $10.0 million in the aggregate and certain pledged deposits with our lenders. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions do not improve or worsen, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our secured loan agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders' commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under any of our secured loan agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing the related loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. In addition, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain the consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we may not be able to obtain our lenders' consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our shareholders' best interest. The current low containership charter rates and values and any future declines in these rates may affect our ability to comply with various covenants in our secured loan agreements, and may cause us to incur impairment charges or to incur a loss if vessel values are low at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel. Our secured loan agreements, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, contain various financial covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our net worth, operating performance and liquidity. For example, there is a minimum equity ratio requirement that is based, in part, upon the market value of the vessels securing the loans, as well as requirements to maintain a minimum ratio of the market value of our vessels mortgaged thereunder to our aggregate outstanding balance under each respective loan agreement. The market value of containerships is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the containership charter markets, with vessel values deteriorating in times when charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current low charter rates in the containership market coupled with the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases have adversely affected containership values. A continuation of these conditions would lead to a further significant decline in the fair market values of our vessels, which may result in our not being in compliance with these loan covenants. In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, or would be willing to refinance, we would have to reduce or eliminate our dividend, sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. Furthermore, if the market value of our vessels further deteriorates significantly or we lose the benefit of the existing time charter arrangements for any of our vessels and cannot replace such arrangements with charters at comparable rates, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. If we fail to comply with our covenants and are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, arrest the vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In addition, if we were unable to obtain waivers, we could be required to reclassify all of our indebtedness as current liabilities, which would be significantly in excess of our cash and other current assets, and which could trigger further defaults under our loan agreements. If our indebtedness was accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. 19 We may have difficulty securing profitable employment for our vessels as their charters expire in the currently depressed containership market. Each of our nine containerships are currently deployed on time charters, with the time charters for two of our vessels scheduled to expire in April 2013 and July 2013, and the time charters for four of our vessels, each of which are well above current market rates, scheduled to expire during 2014. Given the current depressed state of the containership charter market, especially for medium to smaller sized vessels, we may be unable to re-charter these vessels at attractive rates, or at all, when their charters expire. Although we do not receive any revenues from our vessels while not employed, we are required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition, insure it and service any indebtedness secured by such vessel. If we cannot re-charter our vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow will be adversely affected. We are subject to certain risks with counterparties on contracts, including our charterers under our time charter agreements on which we depend for substantially all of our revenues, and the failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and ability to comply with covenants in our loan agreements. We have entered into various contracts, including time charter agreements with our customers. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the container shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various expenses. As of the date of this annual report, we have employed all nine of our containerships under time charters with a weighted average remaining charter duration of 21 months (weighted by aggregate contracted charter hire and assuming no exercise of any options to extend the durations of the charters) with seven charterers and we plan to employ any additional vessels we acquire on time charters. Recently, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charterers, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters, and our charterers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. The time charters on which we employ most of our vessels provide for charter rates that are significantly above market rates as of the date of this annual report. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under its charter with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at lower rates given currently decreased containership charter rate levels. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all and compliance with covenants in our secured loan agreements. In addition, under our $30.0 million loan agreement with UniCredit Bank AG, or UniCredit, if our charter with Maersk, for the vessel mortgaged thereunder, the Maersk Diadema (formerly the MSC Siena), is terminated or ceases to remain in full force and effect for any reason prior to its stated termination date, it would constitute an event of default under such loan agreement. Furthermore, under our loan agreements with ABN AMRO Bank N.V., or ABN AMRO, if our charter with CSAV Valparaiso for the Maule, one of the vessels mortgaged under our $100.0 million loan agreement with ABN AMRO, or either of our charters with OOCL for the OOCL Hong Kong and the OOCL China, the vessels mortgaged under our $25.0 million credit facility with ABN AMRO, is terminated or ceases to remain in full force and effect for any reason prior to its stated termination date, it would constitute an event of default under such loan agreements if the charter were not replaced within 60 days by another charter and with a charterer approved by the lender. We may not be able to secure adequate financing to acquire or identify additional vessels beyond our current fleet, which result could adversely affect our business. We have limited cash resources and no borrowing capacity and we may not be successful in entering into any other financing arrangements. All of the vessels in our fleet are being used as collateral to secure our secured loan agreements. In addition, we may not be able to identify additional vessels beyond our current fleet for acquisition at attractive prices or at all. To the extent we are unable to identify additional vessels suitable for acquisition or obtain acquisition financing on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to acquire additional vessels beyond our current fleet, which result could adversely affect our business. 20 We may be unable to locate suitable vessels for acquisition which would adversely affect our ability to expand our business. Our business strategy is dependent on identifying and purchasing suitable vessels. Changing market and regulatory conditions may limit the availability of suitable vessels because of customer preferences or because they are not or will not be compliant with existing or future rules, regulations and conventions. Additional vessels of the age and quality we desire may not be available for purchase at prices we are prepared to pay or at delivery times acceptable to us. If we are unable to purchase additional vessels at reasonable prices in accordance with our business strategy or in response to changing market and regulatory conditions, our business would be adversely affected. One of the containerships in our current fleet, the Maule, is subject to a purchase option held by its charterer, which, if exercised, could reduce the size of our containership fleet and result in the loss of a substantial portion of our future revenues. The charter with respect to the Maule includes an option for its charterer, CSAV Valparaiso, to purchase such vessel upon the expiration of the charter, which is expected to be in May 2016, provided that the option is exercised at least six months prior to the expiration of the term of the charter at a price of $57.0 million, less a 0.5% purchase commission payable to parties unaffiliated with us, which is more than $20.0 million less than the purchase price that we paid for the vessel. If CSAV Valparaiso were to exercise this option with respect to the Maule, the size of our fleet would be reduced. As a result of the periodic scarcity of secondhand containerships available for acquisition and the length of time required prior to delivery of newbuildings, we may be unable to replace the Maule with a comparable vessel, or any other vessel, quickly or, if containership values are higher than the option exercise price as currently anticipated, at a cost equal to the option exercise price paid by CSAV Valparaiso. As a result, if this purchase option were to be exercised, the expected size of our fleet would be reduced and our anticipated revenues would be reduced. We are a recently organized corporation with limited operating history and Paragon Shipping will not provide any guarantee of the performance of our obligations nor will you have any recourse against Paragon Shipping, or its affiliates, should you seek to enforce a claim against us. We were formed by Paragon Shipping (NYSE: PRGN) and completed the initial public offering of our common stock in the United States, or our Initial Public Offering, in April 2011. Because we are a recently organized corporation with a limited operating history, you will have a limited basis on which to evaluate our performance. As of the date of this annual report, Paragon Shipping owned approximately 16.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock. However, Paragon Shipping has not and will not provide any guarantee of the performance of our obligations. Further, you will have no recourse against Paragon Shipping, or its affiliates, should you seek to enforce a claim against us. Our Manager has limited experience with respect to the containership sector and may not be able to successfully address the variety of vessel management risks in the containership sector or develop and maintain commercial relationships with leading liner companies, which could adversely affect our containership business and results of operations. Our business strategy relies to a significant extent on our ability to successfully operate containerships, which include unique risks involving, among other things, the speeds at which containerships travel in order to move cargoes around the world quickly and minimize delivery delays, the loading or unloading of containers with highly varied cargoes and industry specific inspection procedures. In addition, we will be required to access attractive chartering opportunities by developing and maintaining relationships with established container liner companies. Our ability to establish containership industry relationships and a reputation for customer service and safety, as well as to acquire and renew charters with leading liner companies, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to crew our vessels with experienced containership crews and the ability to manage such risks. 21 We believe that maintaining a modern and technologically advanced fleet, capitalizing on our Manager's experience in the commercial management of vessels and Paragon Shipping's reputation as an owner with high safety and operating standards, as well as on our senior management's experience in the shipping industry, will be important factors in acquiring and retaining major container liner company charterers. However, given our limited operating history and the limited experience of our Manager with respect to the containership industry, which began providing technical and commercial management services to containership vessels in 2010, we may not be able to successfully operate containerships or to develop and maintain the commercial relationships or to replace them in the event any of these relationships are terminated, which would adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. We may not be able to implement our growth effectively. Our business plan is to identify and acquire suitable containerships at favorable prices and to employ our vessels on short- to medium-term time charters of one to five years with staggered maturities. Our business plan therefore depends on our ability to acquire containerships in addition to our current fleet, successfully re-employ our vessels and charter our vessels in the future at favorable rates. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which may have significantly greater financial resources than we do, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our plans to grow our business or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with this plan. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate additional vessels could impede our ability to implement our growth successfully. Our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any additional vessels or businesses acquired, particularly if any additional vessel we acquire proves not to be in good condition; · be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; or · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Moreover, we plan to finance potential future expansions of our fleet through equity financing, which we expect will mainly consist of issuances of additional shares of our common stock, or with borrowings under any credit facilities we may enter into in the future. If we are unable to complete equity issuances at prices that we deem acceptable, our cash on hand is insufficient to fund the costs of future vessel acquisitions, or we cannot enter into future credit facilities on favorable terms, we may need to revise our growth plan or consider alternative forms of financing. If we cannot successfully re-employ the vessels in our current fleet or charter additional vessels we may acquire in the future, we may incur net losses. 22 Our business plan is to identify and acquire suitable vessels, in addition to our current fleet, at favorable prices and, as market conditions warrant, employ our vessels on short- to medium-term time charters ranging from one to five years with staggered maturities. As of the date of this annual report, we have employed all nine containerships in our current fleet under time charters with a weighted average remaining charter duration of 21 months (weighted by aggregate contracted charter hire and assuming no exercise of any options to extend the durations of the charters). Under the terms of our $30.0 million loan agreement with UniCredit, however, we are required to obtain the consent of such lender to charter the Maersk Diadema, under a charter of more than 12 months following the completion of that vessel's current charter in January 2014, or any extensions thereof pursuant to the charterer's four successive one-year option periods. Under the terms of our $100.0 million loan agreement with ABN AMRO, we are required to obtain the consent of such lender to charter the Box Voyager, the Box Trader and, other than with respect to its current charter with CSAV Valparaiso scheduled to be completed in May 2016, the Maule, under charters with durations of more than 12 months. We are subject to a similar requirement under our $25.0 million loan agreement with ABN AMRO, pursuant to which we are required to obtain the consent of such lender to charter the OOCL Hong Kong and the OOCL China, other than with respect to their current charters with OOCL scheduled to be completed in 2015, under charters with durations of more than 12 months. In addition, given the current depressed conditions of the containership market, it is possible that we may acquire a vessel without having a chartering agreement in place or without having a profitable charter in place for such vessel, and we may not find suitable employment for a substantial period of time after taking delivery of such vessel. We would still be incurring costs related to administrative costs, vessel maintenance and general business expenses, but would be generating no income or income below our operating costs. If we are unable to secure suitable re-employment for our current fleet or obtain suitable employment for any vessels that we may acquire in accordance with our business strategy while incurring operating expenses, our business would be adversely affected. Our growth in the future depends on our ability to successfully re-employ our vessels and charter the vessels we may acquire in the future, for which we will face substantial competition. We plan to re-employ our current fleet and initially employ any vessels we may acquire in the future on short- to-medium term time charters ranging from one to five years with staggered maturities, consistent with our chartering policy. The process of obtaining new medium-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Container shipping charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: · shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; · container shipping experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); · quality and experience of seafaring crew; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; · construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new ships according to customer specifications; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and · competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing new containership service from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major shipping companies. Many of these competitors have more experience in the containership sector than we have and significantly greater financial resources than we do, and can therefore operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which will impede our ability to implement our growth successfully. 23 Furthermore, if our vessels become available for employment under new time charters during periods when charter rates are at depressed levels, as was the case with the Box Trader and the Box Voyager upon the expiration of their charters with CSAV Valparaiso in the second and third quarters of 2012, respectively, we may have to employ our containerships at depressed charter rates, if we are able to secure employment for our vessels at all, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. Future charter rates may not be at a level that will enable us to operate our containerships profitably to allow us to implement our growth strategy successfully, pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all or repay our debt. Paragon Shipping and its affiliates may claim business opportunities that would benefit us. Paragon Shipping is contractually prohibited from competing with us in the international containership industry. We have entered into an agreement with Paragon Shipping and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, that provides that so long as Mr. Bodouroglou is a director or executive officer of our Company (i) Mr. Bodouroglou and any entity which he controls and (ii) during any period in which Mr. Bodouroglou is also a director or executive officer of Paragon Shipping and Paragon Shipping is the holder of more than 5% of the total issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, Paragon Shipping, will be prohibited from acquiring or entering into any charter for containerships without our prior written consent and we will not acquire or enter into any charter for drybulk carriers without the prior written consent of Mr. Bodouroglou, such entities controlled by him and Paragon Shipping, as applicable. Nevertheless, Paragon Shipping and its affiliates may claim business opportunities that would benefit us and compete with us in the international containership industry. For example, if we do not exercise our options to acquire one or both of the newbuilding containerships Paragon Shipping has entered into contracts to build and has granted us the options to acquire, Paragon Shipping will be permitted to operate, or sell, the vessels pursuant to a waiver that we will grant to Paragon Shipping under the non-competition agreement described above, provided that Paragon Shipping will grant to us a right of first offer on any proposed sale, transfer or other disposition of the vessels and a right of first refusal over any containership chartering opportunities. We may exercise our options to acquire each vessel by (i) way of an assignment of the relevant construction contract from Paragon Shipping at any time prior to the applicable vessel's delivery to Paragon Shipping, each scheduled for the second quarter of 2014, or (ii) purchase of such vessel at any time after its delivery to Paragon Shipping, so long as the vessel is owned by Paragon Shipping at such time. The purchase price of the options will be equal to the greater of (i) Paragon Shipping's actual carrying cost of the vessel at the date the option is exercised, plus any actual expenses incurred by Paragon Shipping in connection with the construction contracts or the vessels and (ii) the fair market value of the vessel at the date the option is exercised as determined by the average of two independent ship brokers selected by Paragon Shipping and us. In addition, notwithstanding our non-competition agreement with Paragon Shipping, Paragon Shipping may claim other business opportunities that would benefit us, such as the hiring of employees, the acquisition of other businesses, or the entry into joint ventures, and in each case other than business opportunities in the international containership industry, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Our purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our current business strategy includes growing our fleet through the acquisition of secondhand vessels. The acquisition of secondhand vessels does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. These repairs may require us to put a vessel in dry-dock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. In addition, when purchasing secondhand vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. 24 In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increased competition in technological innovation could reduce the demand for our vessels and our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. The charter hire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to be loaded and unloaded quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new containerships are built that are more efficient or flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect the amount of charter hire payments we receive for our vessels or our ability to employ or re-employ our vessels at all. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager will not devote all of their time to our business, which may hinder our ability to operate successfully. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager will be involved in Paragon Shipping’s and other business activities, which may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary to manage our business successfully. The actual allocation of time could vary significantly from time to time depending on various circumstances and needs of the businesses, such as the relative levels of strategic activities of the businesses. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Our executive officers and directors and our Manager have conflicts of interest and limited duties, which may permit them to favor interests of Paragon Shipping or its affiliates above our interests and those of holders of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise between Paragon Shipping, our Manager, and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders, on the other hand. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer serves as the Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Paragon Shipping and our Chief Financial Officer serves as the Chief Financial Officer of Paragon Shipping. Our Chief Executive Officer is also the beneficial owner of all of the capital stock of our Manager and Crewcare Inc., or Crewcare, our manning agent. Therefore, these individuals may favor the interests of Paragon Shipping, Allseas or their affiliates and may not provide us with business opportunities that would benefit us. · Our Manager advises our board of directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional capital stock and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. · Our executive officers and those of our Manager will not spend all of their time on matters related to our business. 25 · Our Manager will advise us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. As a result of these conflicts, our Manager may favor its own interests, the interests of Paragon Shipping and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and those of our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. The fiduciary duties of our officers and directors may conflict with those of the officers and directors of Paragon Shipping and/or its affiliates. Our officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our shareholders. However, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, serves as an executive officer and director of Paragon Shipping and our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Robert Perri, serves as a Chief Financial Officer of Paragon Shipping. As a result, these individuals have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Paragon Shipping and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their shareholders. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Paragon Shipping and us are in conflict. We believe the principal situations in which these conflicts may occur are in the allocation of business opportunities to Paragon Shipping or us, such as with respect to the allocation and hiring of employees, the acquisition of other businesses or the entry into joint ventures, and in each case other than business opportunities in the international containership industry. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. However, we have entered into a non-competition agreement with Paragon Shipping and Mr. Michael Bodouroglou that provides that so long as Mr. Bodouroglou is a director or executive officer of our Company (i) Mr. Bodouroglou and any entity which he controls and (ii) during any period in which Mr. Bodouroglou is also a director or executive officer of Paragon Shipping and Paragon Shipping is the holder of more than 5% of the total issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, Paragon Shipping, will be prohibited from acquiring or entering into any charter for containerships without our prior written consent and we will not acquire or enter into any charter for drybulk carriers without the prior written consent of Mr. Bodouroglou, such entities controlled by him and Paragon Shipping, as applicable. We are dependent on Allseas for the commercial and technical management of our fleet, as well as to provide us with our executive officers, and the failure of Allseas to satisfactorily perform its services may adversely affect our business. We have entered into an executive services agreement with Allseas, pursuant to which Allseas provides us with the services of our executive officers, who report directly to our board of directors. In addition, as we have subcontracted the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Allseas, the loss of Allseas's services or Allseas's failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. We may have rights against Allseas if it defaults on its obligations to us but you will have no recourse directly against Allseas. Further, we are required to seek approval from our lenders under our secured loan agreements to change our commercial and technical manager. Since Allseas is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it, an investor could have little advance warning of potential problems that might affect Allseas that could have a material adverse effect on us. The ability of Allseas to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Allseas's financial strength, and because it is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Allseas began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Allseas, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. 26 Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with Allseas which may create conflicts of interest. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, is the beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Allseas. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Allseas, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels managed by other companies affiliated with Allseas and Mr. Bodouroglou. To the extent that any entities affiliated with Mr. Bodouroglou, other than us, or Allseas, owns or operates vessels that may compete for employment or management services in the future, Allseas may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Bodouroglou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. Allseas currently provides management services to vessels in Paragon Shipping's fleet, private fleets and our fleet. Entities affiliated with Mr. Bodouroglou may acquire vessels that may compete with our vessels in the future, subject to an agreement entered into among the Company, Paragon Shipping and Mr. Bodouroglou, which prohibits Mr. Bodouroglou or entities affiliated with him, including Paragon Shipping, from acquiring or chartering container vessels without our prior written consent, and pursuant to which we have agreed not to acquire or charter drybulk vessels without the prior consent of Mr. Bodouroglou, entities controlled by him or Paragon Shipping, as applicable. To the extent that we believe it is in our interest to grant such consent and Mr. Bodouroglou, entities controlled by him or Paragon Shipping acquires containerships, such vessels may compete with our fleet. Allseas is not a party to the non-competition agreement described above and, under the terms of the agreement, may provide vessel management services to containerships other than ours. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels in the future or to refinance our existing debt as it matures or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Pursuant to an executive services agreement, Allseas provides us with the services of our executive officers, who report directly to our board of directors. Our success depends upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers or other members of our management team. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims. We also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We also maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and particular claims may not be paid by our insurers. 27 In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future or renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. We will be subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity associations, and our associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I Associations. P&I Associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other association members. The objective of a P&I Association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member's vessels entered into the association. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association, as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I Associations with which our P&I Association has entered into interassociation agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I Associations to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars and incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, and therefore exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate a majority of our revenues in U.S. dollars and incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value could increase, decreasing our net income and cash flows from operations. Further declines in the value of the U.S. dollar could also lead to higher expenses payable by us. We may have to pay tax on certain shipping income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a corporation that owns or charters vessels, such as us and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. 28 For the 2012 taxable year, we believe that we and our subsidiaries qualified for this statutory tax exemption and we intend to take this position on our U.S. federal income tax returns. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income for future taxable years. For example, in certain circumstances we may no longer qualify for exemption under Code section 883 for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our shares of common stock owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock for more than half the days during the taxable year. It is possible that the ownership threshold could be met for any taxable year. In such a case, we may not qualify for exemption unless we can establish that among the closely-held group of five percent shareholders, there are sufficient five percent shareholders that are qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified five percent shareholders in the closely-held group from owning 50% or more of our common stock for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. In order to establish this, sufficient five percent shareholders that are qualified shareholders would have to comply with certain documentation and certification requirements designed to substantiate their identity as qualified shareholders. These requirements are onerous and we may not be able to satisfy them. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, there can be no assurances on the tax-exempt status of us or any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries were not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, they could be subject for such year to an effective 2% United States federal income tax on the shipping income they derive during the year which is attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would decrease our earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, two of our vessel owning subsidiaries are incorporated in Hong Kong and own vessels flagged in Hong Kong. While we do not believe that we or our Hong Kong subsidiaries will be subject to taxation in Hong Kong due to an available exemption that we expect to qualify for, we cannot assure you that we will not incur tax liability in Hong Kong in 2013 or in the future. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, cash will be treated as an asset held for the production of passive income. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than those received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. holders of stock in a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. Whether we will be treated as a PFIC will depend upon our method of operation. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from time or voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Income we derive or are deemed to have derived from time or voyage chartering activities (whether directly or through participation in a pool) should not constitute “passive income,” and any assets that we may own and operate in connection with the production of that income should not constitute passive assets. However, any gross income that we derive or are deemed to have derived from bareboat chartering activities will be treated as rental income and thus will constitute “passive income,” and any assets that we may own and operate in connection with the production of that income will constitute passive assets. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, IRS or a court of law may not accept our position with regard to our status from time to time as a PFIC, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are or have been a PFIC for a particular taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. holders of our common stock will face certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless such U.S. holders make certain elections available under the Code (which elections could themselves have certain adverse consequences for such U.S. holders, as discussed below under “Tax Considerations”), such U.S. holders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our units, common stock or warrants, as the case may be, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over such U.S. holder's holding period for such common stock, as the case may be, and may be subject to certain information reporting obligations. Please see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common stock if we are or were to be treated as a PFIC. 29 We may not pay dividends to holders of our common stock in the amounts anticipated or at all. Our policy is to pay quarterly dividends to holders of our common stock in February, May, August, and November of each year, in amounts equal to substantially all of our operating cash flow less any amounts required to pay cash expenses and capital expenditures, service our debt, maintain reserves for dry-docking, surveys and other purposes as our board of directors may from time to time determine and fund dividend payments to holders of holders of our 9.75% Series B-1 Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Shares,, or the Series B-1 Preferred Shares, which rank prior to our common stock with respect to, among other things, dividends. In accordance with our dividend policy, our board of directors has declared a dividend of $0.22 per share with respect to the fourth quarter of 2012, payable on or about March 28, 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 21, 2013. In addition, we currently anticipate paying a dividend of $0.12 per share with respect to the first quarter of 2013, assuming (i) the dry-docking of one of our vessels at the end of the first quarter of 2013 for the anticipated period of time and resulting off-hire days and expense; (ii) the continued performance of our current time charters and no unexpected off-hire periods; (iii) that we do not incur any unanticipated extraordinary cash expenses such as vessel repairs, mandated upgrades or modifications or other liabilities not covered by cash reserves established from time to time by our board of directors, (iv) the continued compliance with our loan agreements and (v) no material changes in vessel operating or financing expenses. We have used in the past, and may use in the future, a portion of our cash reserves, in addition to our operating cash flows, to fund quarterly dividend payments, which reduces our cash position and is only sustainable to the extent cash is available. The amount of cash available for distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon, among other things: · the rates we obtain from our charters the ability and willingness of our customers to perform their obligations under their respective time charters; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet due to failure to secure employment or otherwise and the timing of, and number of days required for, dry-docking of our containerships; · delays in the delivery of any vessels we agree to acquire in the future and the commencement of payments under charters relating to those vessels; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; · changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; and · the payment of fees to our Manager for the technical, commercial, administrative and executive services it provides to us. The actual amount of cash available for distribution also depends upon other factors, such as: · the quarterly dividends we will be obligated to pay to holders of our Series B-1 Preferred Shares; 30 · the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining the vessels in our fleet and acquiring new vessels, which we expect will be substantial; · our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our secured loan agreements and future financing agreements; · fluctuations in our working capital needs and our ability to raise additional equity to satisfy our capital needs; and · the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors, including reserves for working capital and other matters. Our dividend policy may be affected by restrictions on distributions under our secured loan agreements, which contain material financial tests and covenants that must be satisfied. If we are unable to satisfy these restrictions, or if we are otherwise in default under our secured loan agreements, we would be prohibited from making cash distributions to you, notwithstanding our cash dividend policy. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board directors, the rights of holders of our Series B-1 Preferred Shares, compliance with the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands as well as the other limitations set forth in “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” There can be no assurance that we will make dividend payments to holders of our common stock in the amounts or with the frequency anticipated or at all. Our ability to grow and satisfy our financial needs may be adversely affected by our dividend policy. Our dividend policy is to pay quarterly dividends to holders of our common stock in February, May, August and November of each year, in amounts equal to substantially all of our operating cash flow less any amounts required to pay cash expenses and capital expenditures, service our debt and maintain reserves for dry-docking, surveys and other purposes as our board of directors may from time to time determine and fund dividend payments to holders of holders of our Series B-1 Preferred Shares. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution after payment of our cash expenses, our board of directors determines appropriate reserves to be set aside for, among other things, contingent liabilities, liquidity needs, principal payment and other amounts required under the terms and conditions of our secured loan agreements, the requirements of Marshall Islands law, the acquisition of additional vessels, dry-docking costs, repairs, claims and other liabilities and obligations. In addition, we have used in the past, and may use in the future, a portion of our cash reserves, in addition to our operating cash flows, to fund quarterly dividend payments. Accordingly, our growth, if any, may not be as fast as other shipping companies that reinvest all of their cash for acquisitions. We believe that we will generally finance any capital expenditures from cash balances and external financing sources, including future equity issuances, borrowings under additional credit facilities we may enter into in the future and potential debt issuances. To the extent we do not have sufficient cash balances or are unable to obtain external financing for these purposes, our dividend policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which may reduce the amount of cash for dividends to holders of our common stock. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance capital expenditures with cash balances or undrawn credit facilities that we may enter into in the future. We anticipate growing our fleet through the acquisition of vessels, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with dry-docking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in the cost of labor and materials; customer requirements; increases in our fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and competitive standards. 31 In addition, maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels dry-docked during that quarter. For example, we incurred costs of approximately $2.1 million in the aggregate during 2012 in connection with dry-docks relating to the CMA CGM Kingfish and the CMA CGM Marlin and we expect to incur costs of approximately $0.7 million with respect to the dry-dock relating to OOCL Hong Kong, which is scheduled to take place at the end of the first quarter of 2013. Significant maintenance capital expenditures may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet, which may diminish our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all, increase our financial leverage, or dilute our shareholders' ownership interest in us. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring existing vessels from other parties or newbuilding vessels, which we refer to as newbuildings. We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically would pay 10% to 30% of the purchase price of a vessel upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately one to three years from the order). We expect to fund such capital expenditures with future equity issuances and interim debt, which would dilute our quarterly per-share dividends and reduce the cash available for quarterly dividends, respectively, prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. If equity financing is not available on favorable terms, we may have to use debt financing. If we finance all or a portion of these acquisition costs by issuing debt securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest we must pay prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. Any interest expense we incur in connection with financing our vessel acquisitions, including capitalized interest expense, will decrease the amount of our dividends. To fund expansion capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash balances, cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to holders of our common stock. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant shareholder ownership or dividend dilution. Restrictions in, or interest payments required by, our debt agreements may prevent us from paying dividends. The payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to holders of our common stock. In addition, our existing secured loan agreements prohibit, and we expect any future debt agreements we enter into will also prohibit, the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial covenants; 32 · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and · a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. In turn, the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us depends on them having profits available for distribution and, to the extent that we are unable to obtain dividends from our subsidiaries, this will limit the discretion of our board of directors to pay or recommend the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. If management is unable to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with unqualified attestation reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm related to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If, in such annual reports on Form 20-F, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights or protections that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 33 It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and our wholly-owned subsidiaries through which we own and operate our vessels are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the United States. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets, our subsidiaries' assets and the assets of most of our officers and directors are, and will likely remain, located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. shareholders to serve process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or our subsidiaries' assets are located (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws. In addition, the protections offered minority shareholders in the Marshall Islands are different than in the United States. Risk Factors Related To Our Common Stock The concentration of our common stock ownership with Paragon Shipping and its affiliates, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will limit the ability of holders of our common stock to influence corporate matters. Paragon Shipping currently owned approximately 16.4% of our outstanding common stock and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, was deemed to have beneficially owned approximately 16.7% of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, our directors or officers who are affiliated with Paragon Shipping or other individuals providing services under our management agreements with Allseas who are affiliated with Paragon Shipping have received, and may continue to receive, equity awards under our 2011 Equity Incentive Plan. As of the date of this annual report, there were 1,325,000 shares of common stock available for issuance under our 2011 Equity Incentive Plan. Through its direct ownership, as well as its affiliation with our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and the issuance of equity awards under our 2011 Equity Incentive Plan to individuals affiliated with Paragon Shipping, Paragon Shipping has significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control limits the ability of holders of our common stock to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that holders of our common stock do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our Series B-1 Preferred Shares are senior obligations of ours and will rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our Series B-1 Preferred Shares will rank senior to the obligations to holders of our common stock. Upon our liquidation, the holders of Series B-1 Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $30.00 per share, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities, including our common stock. The existence of the Series B-1 Preferred Shares could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we had 20,960,715 shares common stock outstanding. We also had outstanding warrants to purchase up to 1,333,333 shares of our common stock, exercisable at any time prior to July 1, 2017 at a price of $7.74 per share, and 640,692 Series B-1 Preferred Shares, all held by Neige International, as of the date of this annual report. We have the right, but not the obligation, to convert our outstanding Series B-1 Preferred Shares at any time from time to time into common stock as discussed in Item 10. Additional Information—A. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Preferred Stock.” Further, holders of our Series B-1 Preferred Shares outstanding on July 1, 2015 will be entitled to receive, for no additional consideration, on a pro-rata basis, shares of common stock representing in the aggregate 5.0% of our shares of common stock outstanding at that time, on a fully diluted basis. 34 In order to fund further growth of our fleet, we may have to incur additional indebtedness and/or sell additional equity securities. We may also need to sell additional equity securities in order to repay the $13.0 million outstanding under our loan agreement with Paragon Shipping upon its maturity in April 2013. Future issuances of our common stock, directly or indirectly through convertible or exchangeable securities, options, warrants or rights, will generally dilute the ownership interests of holders of our existing common stock, including their relative voting rights, and could require substantially more cash to maintain the then existing level, if any, of our dividend payments to holders of our common stock, as to which no assurance can be given. Additional series or classes of preferred shares, if issued, will generally have a preference on dividend payments, which could prohibit or otherwise reduce our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in amounts anticipated or at all. Any additional debt we incur will be senior in all respects to our common stock, will generally include financial and operating covenants with which we must comply and will include acceleration provisions upon defaults thereunder, including our failure to make any debt service payments, and possibly under other debt. Because our decision to issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions and other matters that are beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the timing, amount or form of our capital raising activities in the future. Future sales or other issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock or other securities in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales or issuances could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. As of the date of this annual report, Paragon Shipping owned approximately 16.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, was deemed to beneficially own approximately 16.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which includes 1,333,333 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued to Neige International in a private offering, as described in “