D. Risk Factors혰Risks Relating to our ADSs혰Our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and the largest holder of our outstanding share capital, Mr. Yu, has through a personal guarantee, pledged his personal property, including his equity interest in our company, to secure the obligations of Beijing Bona Film and Culture Communication Co., Ltd. under a credit facility. A default under the credit facility could result in the sale by court order of Mr. Yu's property, including his equity interest in us. A sale of such equity interest whether by court order or otherwise would likely cause a significant drop in the price of our ADSs. Moreover, Mr. Yu, who could thereafter have a substantially smaller or no equity interest in our company, could have less or no personal stake or interest in the commercial success of our company." 120 Table of Contents Other Related Party Transactions As of December 31, 2008, we were owed US$80,432 from affiliates of Cinema Popular Limited. These receivables were repaid in August 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we owed US$27,269 to Mr. Hai Yu. This amount was repaid in June 2010. As of December 31, 2009, we owed US$4 to Wisdom Group Limited. This amount was repaid in 2010. In September 2010, our affiliated consolidated entity, Beijing Bona International Cineplex Investment and Management Co., Ltd., entered into a management service agreement with Beijing Bona Starlight Cineplex Management Co., Ltd., or Starlight Cineplex, a development stage movie theater operator in the PRC whose principal shareholders include Mr. Dong Yu. Under the terms of this agreement, we licensed our "Bona" brand to Starlight Cineplex and became the exclusive provider of management services for its current and future movie theaters. We are also entitled to receive a share of the box office receipts and advertising revenues of Starlight Cineplex's movie theaters. In November 2010, we entered into a separate agreement with Starlight Cineplex, we have a right of first refusal with respect to transfers of movie theaters developed by Starlight Cineplex and right of first refusal with respect to transfers of shares of Starlight Cineplex. Share Incentive Plans See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees혰B. Compensation of Directors, Supervisors and Executive Officers혰Share Incentive Plans." C. Interests of Experts and Counsel Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information Please refer to Item 18 for a list of all financial statements filed as part of this annual report on Form 20-F. Litigation See "