D. Risk factors.” A. Operating results Overview We are an international shipping company specializing in the seaborne transportation of containers worldwide. We were formed on May 19, 2010, Inception, by Paragon Shipping. We remained substantially inactive for the period from Inception until April 14, 2011, the date of our Initial Public Offering. Substantially all activity through April 14, 2011 relates to our formation and Initial Public Offering efforts, described below. We commenced operations following the completion of our Initial Public Offering, on April 19, 2011. Accordingly, we have a limited history of operations. Our current fleet is comprised of seven containerships with a TEU weighted average age of 4.2 years, a total capacity of over 33,000 TEU and a weighted average remaining charter duration of 26 months. Vessel Management Allseas, a Liberian corporation based in Athens, Greece that was formed in 2000 as a ship management company and is wholly-owned by our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, provides commercial and technical management services for our fleet, pursuant to long-term management agreements between Allseas and each of our vessel-owning subsidiaries. We have entered into separate management agreements with Allseas for each of the vessels in our fleet. Each management agreement has an initial term of five years and automatically renews for additional five-year periods, unless, in each case, at least 90 days’ advance notice of termination is given by either party. Under the management agreements, Allseas is entitled to a technical management fee of €620 per vessel, per day (or $809 per vessel, per day using an exchange rate of $1.3046€1.00, the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate as of March 14, 2012 according to Bloomberg), payable on a monthly basis in advance, pro rata either for the calendar days these vessels are owned by us if the vessels are second-hand purchases, or from the date of the memorandum of agreement if the vessels are purchased directly from a shipyard. The technical management fee is adjusted annually based on the official Eurozone inflation rate. Allseas is also entitled to (i) a fee equal to 1.25% of the gross freight, demurrage and charter hire collected from the employment of our vessels, (ii) a fee equal to 1.0% calculated on the price as stated in the relevant memorandum of agreement for any vessel bought or sold on our behalf, and (iii) a superintendent fee of €500 per day (or $652 per day using an exchange rate of $1.3046€1.00, the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate as of March 14, 2012 according to Bloomberg), for each day in excess of five days per calendar year for which a superintendent performed on site inspection. In addition, Allseas is entitled to a lump sum fee of $15,000 for pre-delivery services, including legal fees, crewing and manning fees, manual preparation costs and other expenses related to preparing the vessel for delivery, rendered during the period from the date a memorandum of agreement is signed for the purchase of any such vessel until the delivery date. 60 Table of Contents Factors Affecting our Results of Operations We generate the majority of our revenue from time charters on which we employ our vessels. Each of the seven vessels in our fleet is currently operating under a fixed rate time charter. Our ongoing cash expenses consist of fees and reimbursements under our management agreements, administrative services agreement and executive services agreement and other expenses directly related to the operation of our vessels and certain administrative expenses. We do not have any income tax liabilities in the Marshall Islands or Liberia, but may be subject to tax in the United States on revenues derived from voyages that either begin or end in the United States. Please see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation.” Our financial results are largely driven by the following factors: • Calendar days. We define calendar days as the total number of days in a period during which each vessel in our fleet was owned including off-hire days associated with major repairs, drydockings or special or intermediate surveys. Calendar days are an indicator of the size of the fleet over a period and affect both the amount of revenues and the amount of expenses that are recorded during that period. • Available days. We define available days as the total number of days in a period during which each vessel in the fleet was owned net of off-hire days associated with major repairs, drydockings or special or intermediate surveys. The shipping industry uses available days (also referred to as voyage days) to measure the number of days in a period during which vessels actually generate revenues. • Fleet utilization. We calculate fleet utilization by dividing the number of available days during a period by the number of calendar days during that period. The shipping industry uses fleet utilization to measure a company’s efficiency in finding suitable employment for its vessels and minimizing the amount of days that its vessels are off-hire for reasons such as scheduled repairs, vessel upgrades, drydockings or special or intermediate surveys. • Charter contracts. A time charter is a contract for the use of a vessel for a specific period of time during which the charterer pays substantially all of the voyage expenses, including port and canal charges, and bunkers (fuel) expenses, but the vessel owner pays the vessel operating expenses and commissions on gross voyage revenues. Time charter rates are usually fixed during the term of the charter. Prevailing time charter rates fluctuate on a seasonal and year to year basis and may be substantially higher or lower from a prior time charter contract when the subject vessel is seeking to renew that prior charter or enter into a new charter with another charterer. Fluctuations in charter rates are caused by imbalances in the availability of cargoes for shipment and the number of vessels available at any given time to transport these cargoes. Our financial results are also affected by our ability to control our fixed and variable expenses, including our ship-management fees, our operating costs, and our general, administrative and other expenses including insurance. Operating costs may vary from month to month depending on a number of factors, including the timing of purchases of lubricants, crew changes and delivery of spare parts. 61 Table of Contents Voyage Revenues Time charter revenues are driven primarily by the number of vessels in our fleet, the number of voyage days during which our vessels generate revenues and the amount of daily charter hire that our vessels earn under charters. These, in turn, are affected by a number of factors, including our decisions relating to vessel acquisitions and disposals, the amount of time that we spend positioning our vessels, the amount of time that our vessels spend in drydock undergoing repairs, maintenance and upgrade work, the age, condition and specifications of our vessels, levels of supply and demand in the containership market and other factors affecting the charter rates for our vessels. Period charters refer to both time and bareboat charters. Vessels operating on time charters for a certain period of time provide more predictable cash flows over that period of time. Under a bareboat charter, the charterer is typically responsible for paying all voyage costs as well as the vessel’s operating expenses and management fees. As a result of this arrangement, daily charter hire rates payable under a bareboat charter are generally significantly less than the charter hire rates payable under a time charter for a comparable vessel. Vessels operating on period time charters provide more predictable cash flows, but can yield lower profit margins than vessels operating in the spot charter market during periods characterized by favorable market conditions. Vessels operating in the spot charter market generate revenues that are less predictable but may enable us to capture increased profit margins during periods of improvements in charter rates although we are exposed to the risk of declining charter rates, which may have a materially adverse impact on our financial performance. Future spot market rates may be higher or lower than the rates at which we have employed our vessels on period time charters. When vessels are acquired with time charters attached and the charter rate on such charters is above or below the then current market rates, we allocate the purchase price of the vessel and the attached time charter on a relative fair value basis. The fair value is computed as the present value of the difference between the contractual amount to be received over the term of the time charter and our estimate of the then current market charter rate for an equivalent vessel at the time of acquisition. The asset or liability recorded is amortized or accreted over the remaining period of the time charter as a reduction or addition, respectively, to time charter revenues. The intangible asset and liability recorded at inception of the time charter contracts amounted to $12.3 million and $4.0 million, respectively. The amortization and accretion for the year ended December 31, 2011 for the intangible asset and liability amounted to $1.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Voyage Expenses Voyage expenses, primarily consisting of port, canal, bunker expenses and war risk insurance costs, that are unique to a particular charter, are paid for by the charterer under time charter arrangements or by us under voyage charter arrangements, except for commissions, which are always paid for by us, regardless of charter type. All voyage and vessel operating expenses are expensed as incurred, except for commissions. Commissions are deferred over the related voyage charter period to the extent revenue has been deferred since commissions are earned as our revenues are earned. Vessel Operating Expenses Our vessel operating expenses include crew wages and related costs, the cost of insurance and vessel registry, expenses relating to repairs and maintenance (excluding drydocking), the costs of spares and consumable stores, regulatory fees and other miscellaneous expenses. We anticipate that our vessel operating expenses, which generally represent fixed costs, will increase as we add vessels to our fleet. Other factors beyond our control, some of which may affect the shipping industry in general, including, for instance, developments relating to market prices for crew wages and insurance, may also cause these expenses to increase. 62 Table of Contents Drydocking Expenses We account for drydocking costs using the direct expense method. Two of the vessels in our fleet, the CMA CGM Kingfish and the CMA CGM Marlin, are scheduled for drydocks in the second quarter of 2012. We anticipate these drydocks will result in approximately 15 off-hire days per vessel and expenses amounting to approximately $500,000 per vessel. For more information on the drydocking schedule of our vessels, please see “