D. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. Please carefully consider the risks we describe below in addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this annual report and our other filings with the SEC. These material risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business and our industry Downturns in the home renovation and remodeling and new residential construction sectors or the economy generally and a lack of availability of consumer credit could adversely impact end-consumers and lower demand for our products, which could cause our revenues and net income to decrease. Our products are primarily used as countertops in residential kitchens. As a result, our sales depend significantly on home renovation and remodeling spending, as well as new residential construction spending. Our products are also used in commercial applications. Spending in each of these sectors declined significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 in most of the markets in which we operate and, to date, many of these markets, including Australia, the United States and Europe, did not recover or recovered only to a certain degree. Spending on home renovation and remodeling and new residential construction depends significantly on the availability of consumer credit, as well as other factors such as interest rates, consumer confidence, government programs and unemployment. Such factors also affect spending on commercial projects. Any of these factors could result in a tightening of lending standards by financial institutions and reduce the ability of consumers to finance renovation and remodeling expenditures or home purchases. Consumers’ ability to access financing varies across our operating markets. Declining home values, increased home foreclosures and tightening of credit standards by lending institutions in certain markets have negatively impacted the home renovation and remodeling and the new residential construction sectors in several of our key existing markets since 2008. Although a certain recovery has occurred in the U.S. economy, the European and Australian economies continue to be significantly impacted today. If these negative trends continue, we may be unable to grow our business and our revenues and net income may be adversely affected. 5 Our revenues are subject to significant geographic concentration and any disruption to sales within one of our key existing markets could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and prospects. Our sales are currently subject to significant geographic concentration. In 2013, sales in the United States, Australia, Canada and Israel accounted for 34.6%, 25.2%, 13.8% and 11.8% of our revenues, respectively. Each country has different characteristics and our results of operations could be adversely impacted by a range of factors, including local competitive changes, changes in consumers’ quartz surface or countertop preferences and regulatory changes that specifically impact these markets. A downturn in levels of home renovation and remodeling or new residential construction spending in the United States, Australia, Canada or Israel, in particular, could adversely affect our revenues and net income. Home starts in the United States, which was estimated to account for approximately 40% of our sales in this country in 2013, increased by 18.2% in 2013, following a 28.2% increase in 2012. Renovation and remodeling spending, which accounted for approximately 45% of our sales in the United States in 2013, is estimated to have grown by 7.8% in 2013 according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies, Harvard University, following a 6.6% increase in 2012. Renovation and remodeling activities in Australia, our second largest market, which are estimated to account for approximately 50% of our total sales in this country in 2013, decreased by 6.9% from July 2012 to June 2013, following a decrease of 2.6% from July 2011 to June 2012. However, housing starts increased 10.8% from July 2012 to June 2013 following an aggregate decrease of 16.0% from July 2010 to June 2012. In Canada, home starts, which are estimated to account for approximately 45% of our sales in 2013, decreased by 13.9% in 2013, after a 10.8% increase in 2012. Our sales could be adversely impacted by other general economic conditions, including an increase in imports from Asian manufacturers into our main markets, especially the United States, Australia and Canada. Stronger local currencies could make lower priced and lower quality imported goods more competitive than our products. Future increases in interest rates placing pressure on the affordability of home renovation and remodeling and new residential construction projects could also slow down the demand for our products. Although we face different challenges and risks in each of these markets, due to the existence of a high level of geographic concentration, should an adverse event occur in any of these jurisdictions, our results of operations and prospects could be impacted disproportionately. We face intense competition and competitive pressures, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our quartz surface products compete with a number of other surface materials such as granite, laminate, marble, manufactured solid surface, concrete, stainless steel and wood. We compete with these surface materials and other quartz surfaces on a range of factors, including brand awareness and brand position, product quality, product differentiation, new product development and time to market, technological innovation, pricing, availability of inventory on demand, customer service and breadth of product offerings. Since we seek to position our products as a premium alternative to other surface materials and other quartz surfaces, the perception among end-consumers of the quality of our products is a key competitive differentiator. In addition, to maintain our price levels, margins, competitive position and increase demand for our quartz surface products, we must continue to develop and introduce new product designs supported by proprietary manufacturing knowledge that meets consumer preferences. Some of our competitors may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and demand more quickly, devote greater resources to design innovation and establishing brand recognition, manufacture more versatile slab sizes, implement processes to lower costs, acquire complementary businesses, such as raw material suppliers, and expand more rapidly or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. A number of our competitors have greater financial and capital resources than we do and continue to invest heavily to achieve increased production efficiencies and brand recognition. Competitors may also be in a better position to access emerging sales channels in various markets. Our revenues, margins and net income may be adversely affected if manufacturers of other surface materials or other quartz surface manufacturers successfully brand their products as premium products; consumers place less value on premium branded quartz surfaces; we are unable to develop new product designs based on consumer demand that are supported by new technologies and know-how developed by us; we are unable to place sufficient inventory to fulfill the demand in the markets; we are unable to complete our additional manufacturing capabilities as planned; new products of similar or better characteristics are marketed by competitors; or our manufacturing efficiency declines as a result of decreasing capacity and/or increased expenses to meet quality standards in connection with the use of new product development technologies. In addition, changes in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause a distributor to change manufacturers, which would harm our sales in a particular market. 6 We face competition from providers of quartz surfaces that set prices considerably lower than the prices of our premium products, which could adversely impact our sales and margins. We have invested considerable resources to position our quartz surface products as premium branded products. Due to our products’ high quality and positioning, we generally set our prices at a higher level than alternate surfaces and quartz surfaces provided by other manufacturers. We face competition in many markets, particularly in the United States, Australia and Europe, primarily from manufacturers located in the Asia-Pacific region that market quartz surface products at lower price points. Manufacturers in China, Vietnam and other countries in the Asia-Pacific region frequently benefit from labor and energy costs that are significantly lower than our costs and enable them to price their products lower than our products. Under these circumstances, we can face direct competition that significantly undercuts the prices that we are able to charge and that we seek to charge our customers, as well as the prices that our distributors and stonemasons are able to charge consumers. Even if we seek to lower the prices that we charge for our products in certain markets, we may be unable to achieve the same labor and energy costs in order to maintain current margins on our products. Some of these competitors have developed know-how and technical capabilities to manufacture products similar to our products and other competitors may do so in the future. We have also experienced instances of our competitors marketing products with similar appearances and similar model names to some of our products. Competition of this nature may increase in the markets in which we operate and may develop in new markets. Even if these competitors are unable to compete with us in all markets in which we sell, the introduction of similar products may result in lowering or eliminating the value that distributors and end-consumers place on our premium brand and products. Such competition or change in perception could result in significantly lower sales and reduced profit margins. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and we may not have adequately hedged against them. We conduct business in multiple countries, which exposes us to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar (our functional currency since July 1, 2012) and other currencies in which we conduct business. In 2013, 36.9% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars, 25.2% in Australian dollars, 13.8% in Canadian dollars, 12.3% in Euros and 11.8% in NIS. Conversely, in 2013, the majority of our expenses were denominated in NIS, U.S. dollars and Euros, and a much smaller proportion in Australian and Canadian dollars. As a result, a weakening of the Australian and Canadian dollars and a strengthening of the NIS and Euro against the U.S. dollar presents a significant risk to us and may impact our business significantly. For example, the Australian dollar depreciated 6.4% against the U.S. dollar in 2013 compared to 2012 on an annual average basis, which resulted in our operating income decreasing by $4.5 million, or 1.2% of our revenues in 2013, compared to 2012. Although we currently engage in derivatives transactions, such as forward contracts, to minimize our currency risk, future currency exchange rate fluctuations against which we have not adequately hedged could adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, our currency derivatives are currently not designated as hedging accounting instruments under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815, Derivatives and Hedging (originally issued as SFAS 133). Hedging results are charged to finance expenses, net, and therefore, do not offset the impact of currency fluctuations on our operating income. See “ITEM 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk”. Changes in the prices of our raw materials have increased our costs and decreased our margins and net income in the past and may increase our costs and decrease our margins in the future. Quartz, which is the main raw material component used in our products accounted for approximately 30% of our raw materials cost in 2013. Accordingly, our cost of sales and overall results of operations are impacted significantly by fluctuations in quartz prices. For example, if the cost of quartz was to rise by 10% and we were not able to pass along any of such increase to our customers or achieve other offsetting savings, we would experience a decrease of approximately 0.9% in our gross profit margin. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers of quartz. The price of quartz was relatively stable during the last few years, but recently we have experienced an increase when renewing our annual supply contracts for 2014 with the Turkish quartzite suppliers, given the increasing global demand for quartz. We acquire quartzite from four suppliers in Turkey, with the major part acquired from Mikroman Madencilik San ve TIC.LTD.STI (“Mikroman”). Any future increases in quartz prices may adversely impact our margins and net income. 7 Polyester and other polymer resins, which act as a binding agent in our products, accounted for approximately 43% of our raw material costs in 2013. Accordingly, our cost of sales and overall results of operations are impacted significantly by fluctuations in resin prices. For example, if the price of polyester and other polymer resins was to rise by 10%, and we were not able to pass along any of such increase to our customers or achieve other offsetting savings, we would experience a decrease of approximately 1.2% in our gross profit margin. The cost of polyester and other polymer resins is a function of, among other things, manufacturing capacity, demand and the price of crude oil. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers of polyester and other polymer resins. We generally purchase polyester and other polymer resins on a monthly basis and have found that increases in their prices may be difficult to pass on to our customers. In 2009, average polyester prices dropped by approximately 27%, and during 2010, average polyester prices increased by approximately 20% followed by a further increase of approximately 12% in 2011. In 2012, however, polyester prices stabilized with an approximately 1% decrease in average prices during this period. In 2013, polyester prices continued to be stable with an approximately 2% increase in average price. In the past, we managed to offset a portion of these cost increases through purchase orders up to one quarter in advance. However, manufacturers are currently unwilling to agree to preset prices for periods longer than one or two months. Any future increases in polyester prices may adversely impact our margins and net income. Pigments are also used to manufacture our quartz surface products. Although pigments account for a significantly lower percentage of our raw material costs than polyester and other polymer resins, fluctuations in pigment prices may also adversely impact our margins and net income. For example, the price of titanium dioxide, our principal white pigmentation agent, increased by approximately 35% during 2010. Such increases began to impact our margins in 2011. In 2011, average titanium dioxide prices increased an additional 36% approximately, however, in the following year, average titanium dioxide prices decreased by approximately 5%. In 2013, the price of titanium dioxide continued decreasing by additional 25%. In the event titanium dioxide prices increase in the future, our margins may be impacted. If the price of titanium dioxide were to increase by 10% and we were unable to pass along such increase to our customers or achieve other offsetting savings, we estimate that we would experience a decrease of approximately 0.3% in our margins. We are working to increase our production capacity for our quartz surface products in Israel and the United States in order to meet anticipated demand through expanding our manufacturing facilities. If we fail to achieve this further expansion, we may be unable to grow our business and revenue, maintain our competitive position or improve our profitability. We plan to expand our existing production capacity to meet anticipated demand through the completion of the construction of a fifth production line at our Bar-Lev manufacturing facility in Israel and the construction of a new manufacturing facility with capacity for two production lines in the United States. The operation of the fifth production line in the Bar-Lev manufacturing facility consists of two phases. The first phase was completed during the fourth quarter of 2013 and the second phase is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2014. The first production line in the new U.S. facility is planned to be operational in the second quarter of 2015 and the second production line is planned to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2015. We have selected Richmond Hill, Georgia as the location for our new manufacturing facility in the United States. Although we are experienced in constructing manufacturing facilities for our quartz surfaces, we have never established or operated manufacturing facilities outside of Israel and cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully establish or operate the U.S. facility in a timely or profitable manner, or at all. We will depend on third party construction companies to assist in the design, construction and validation of our new facilities, some of which we have already engaged within our project to establish our U.S. plant. In addition, we will need to implement our quartz surface manufacturing proprietary technology and know-how in our U.S. facility. Our investments related to these production capacity increases in Israel and the United States are estimated to be approximately $22 million and $100 million, respectively. However, the actual costs related to these production capacity increases may be materially different from what we are currently estimating. In addition, the time it takes to complete these projects may be significantly longer than we currently expect due to reasons that may be outside of our control. In addition, we will need to obtain a number of permits and regulatory approvals with respect to the operation of the additional production line at our Bar-Lev manufacturing facility and obtain permits and regulatory approvals prior, and subsequent, to the operation of at our new manufacturing facility in the United States. To maintain certain permits necessary to operate the additional production line at our Bar-Lev manufacturing facility, we must comply with the Israeli Ministry of the Environment Protection’s requirements including those related to styrene emissions (See “