Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · weather conditions in our operating areas; · the cost of crude oil and natural gas liquids that we buy for resale and whether we are able to pass along cost increases to our customers; · the volume of wastewater delivered to our processing facilities; · disruptions in the availability of crude oil and/or natural gas liquids supply; · our ability to renew leases for storage and rail cars; · the effectiveness of our commodity price hedging strategy; · the level of competition from other energy providers; and · prevailing economic conditions. 22 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement and other debt service requirements; · fluctuations in working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; · the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our general partner; and · other business risks discussed in this annual report that may affect our cash levels. Because of all these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we realize net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we might make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and we might not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. Our business depends on the availability of supply of oil and natural gas liquids in the United States and Canada, which is dependent on the ability and willingness of other parties to explore for and produce oil and natural gas. Spending on oil and natural gas exploration and production may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control including, without limitation, (1) prices for crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids, (2) oil and natural gas producers having success in their operations, (3) continued commercially viable areas in which to explore and produce oil and natural gas, and (4) the availability of liquids-rich natural gas needed to produce natural gas liquids. Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions and existing or new regulations, such as those related to environmental matters, that are beyond our control. We depend on the ability and willingness of other entities to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop, and produce oil and natural gas in the United States and Canada, and to extract natural gas liquids from natural gas. Customers’ expectations of lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services and equipment. Actual market conditions and producers’ expectations of market conditions for crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids may also cause producers to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the availability of commercially viable geographic areas in which to explore and produce oil and natural gas, the availability of liquids-rich natural gas needed to produce natural gas liquids, the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, environmental restrictions on the exploration and production of oil and natural gas, such as existing and proposed regulation of hydraulic fracturing, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among our current or potential customers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the resulting impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity. This reduction may cause a decline in business opportunities or the demand for our services, or adversely affect the price of our services. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced. 23 Table of Contents The oil and natural gas production industry tends to run in cycles and may, at any time, cycle into a downturn; if that occurs again, the rate at which it returns to former levels, if ever, will be uncertain. Prior adverse changes in the global economic environment and capital markets and declines in prices for oil and natural gas have caused many customers to reduce capital budgets for future periods and have caused decreased demand for oil and natural gas. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures have caused and may continue to cause customers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending may curtail drilling programs and other discretionary spending, which could result in a reduction in business opportunities and demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Competition from alternative energy sources may cause us to lose customers, thereby negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly for equivalent energy value. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Competition from alternative energy sources, including electricity and natural gas, has increased as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities. Electricity is a major competitor of propane, but propane has historically enjoyed a competitive price advantage over electricity. Except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because such pipelines generally make it possible for the delivered cost of natural gas to be less expensive than the bulk delivery of propane. The expansion of natural gas into traditional propane markets has historically been inhibited by the capital cost required to expand distribution and pipeline systems; however, the gradual expansion of the nation’s natural gas distribution systems has resulted in natural gas being available in areas that previously depended on propane, which could cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Although propane is similar to fuel oil in some applications and market demand, propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent primarily because of the cost of converting from one to the other and due to the fact that both fuel oil and propane have generally developed their own distinct geographic markets. We cannot predict the effect that development of alternative energy sources may have on our operations, including whether subsidies of alternative energy sources by local, state, and federal governments might be expanded, or what impact this might have on the supply of or the demand for crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, such as installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has adversely affected the demand for propane by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices may reduce demand for propane. In addition, if the price of propane increases, some of our customers may increase their conservation efforts and thereby decrease their consumption of propane. Our profitability could be negatively impacted by price and inventory risk related to our business. The crude oil logistics, natural gas liquids logistics, and retail propane businesses are “margin-based” businesses in which our realized margins depend on the differential of sales prices over our total supply costs. Our profitability is therefore sensitive to changes in the prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids caused by changes in supply or other market conditions. Generally, we attempt to maintain an inventory position that is substantially balanced between our purchases and sales, including our future delivery obligations. We attempt to obtain a certain margin for our purchases by selling our product to our customers, which include third party consumers, other wholesalers and retailers, and others. However, market, weather or other conditions beyond our control may disrupt our expected supply of product, and we may be required to obtain supply at increased prices that cannot be passed through to our customers. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points, creating the potential for sudden and drastic price fluctuations. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce our margins and could, if continued over an extended period of time, reduce demand by encouraging retail customers to conserve or convert to alternative energy sources. Conversely, a prolonged decline in product prices could potentially result in a reduction of the borrowing base under our working capital facility, and we could be required to liquidate propane inventory that we have already pre-sold. 24 Table of Contents We are affected by competition from other midstream, transportation, terminalling and storage and retail marketing companies. We experience competition in all of our segments. In our natural gas liquids logistics segment, we compete for natural gas supplies and also for customers for our services. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, treat, process, transport, store and market natural gas. Our natural gas liquids terminals compete with other terminalling and storage providers in the transportation and storage of natural gas liquids. Natural gas and natural gas liquids also compete with other forms of energy, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and renewable or alternative energy. Our crude oil logistics segment faces significant competition for crude oil supplies and also for customers for our services. These operations also face competition from trucks for incremental and marginal volumes in the areas we serve. Further, our crude terminals compete with terminals owned by integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies, independent terminal companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading operations. Our water services segment is in direct and indirect competition with other businesses, including disposal and other wastewater treatment businesses, some of which are larger and more firmly established and may have greater marketing and development budgets and capital resources than we do. We also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail propane. Our competitors vary from retail propane companies who are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do to small retail propane distributors, rural electric cooperatives and fuel oil distributors who have entered the market due to a low barrier to entry. The actions of our retail marketing competitors, including the impact of imports, could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We can make no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in each of our lines of business. If a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices, we may lose customers, which would reduce our revenues. Our business would be adversely affected if service at our principal storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use is interrupted. Historically, a substantial portion of our propane supply has originated from storage facilities at Borger, Texas; Conway and Bushton, Kansas; Mt. Belvieu, Texas; and Sarnia, Ontario, Canada and has been shipped to us or by us to our service areas through common carrier pipelines. Any significant interruption in the service at these storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use would adversely affect our ability to obtain propane. Our business would be adversely affected if service on the railroads we use is interrupted. We transport crude oil and natural gas liquids by rail car. We do not own or operate the railroads on which these cars are transported. Any disruptions in the operations of these railroads could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. If we are unable to purchase crude oil and natural gas liquids from our principal suppliers, our results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to purchase product from significant suppliers, our failure to obtain alternate sources of supply at competitive prices and on a timely basis would adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A loss of one or more significant customers could materially or adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 43% of the revenues of our water services segment during the year ended March 31, 2013 were generated from our two largest customers of the segment. Approximately 58% of the revenues of our crude oil logistics segment during the year ended March 31, 2013 were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment. Approximately 42% of the revenues our natural gas liquids logistics segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment. For the year ended March 31, 2013, sales of crude oil and natural gas liquids to our largest customer represented approximately 10% of our consolidated total revenues. We expect to continue to depend on key customers to support our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of key customers, failure to renew contracts upon expiration, or a sustained decrease in demand by key customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our future financial performance and growth may be limited by our ability to successfully complete accretive acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. Our ability to consummate acquisitions on economically acceptable terms may be limited by various factors, including, but not limited to: · Increased competition for attractive acquisitions; · Covenants in our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement that limit the amount and types of indebtedness that we may incur to finance acquisitions and which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders; · Lack of available cash or external capital or limitations on our ability to issue equity to pay for acquisitions; and · Possible unwillingness of prospective sellers to accept our common units as consideration and the potential dilutive effect to our existing unitholders caused by an issuance of common units in an acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will identify attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such businesses on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings and distributions or that any additional debt that we incur to finance an acquisition will not affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Furthermore, if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. The propane industry is a mature industry. We anticipate only limited growth in total national demand for propane in the near future. Increased competition from alternative energy sources has limited growth in the propane industry, and year-to-year industry volumes are primarily impacted by fluctuations in weather and economic conditions. In addition, our retail propane business concentrates on sales to residential customers, but because of longstanding customer relationships that are typical in the retail residential propane industry, the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers and propane’s generally higher cost as compared to certain other energy sources, we may have difficulty in increasing our retail customer base other than through acquisitions. Therefore, while our business strategy includes expanding our existing operations through internal growth, our ability to grow within the industries in which we operate will depend principally on acquisitions. We may be subject to substantial risks in connection with the integration and operation of acquired businesses, in particular those businesses with operations that are distinct and separate from our existing operations. Any acquisitions we make in pursuit of our growth strategy are subject to potential risks, including, but not limited to: · the inability to successfully integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses; · the assumption of known or unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt or synergies; · unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or in new business segments; · the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; · customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and · a potential significant increase in our indebtedness and related interest expense. We undertake due diligence efforts in our assessment of acquisitions, but may be unable to identify or fully plan for all issues and risks attendant to a particular acquisition. Even when an issue or risk is identified, we may be unable to obtain adequate contractual protection from the seller. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the success of a particular acquisition or our financial condition, results of operations or future growth. 26 Table of Contents As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our operations into businesses that differ from our existing operations. Integration of new businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and may involve assets with which we have limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks set forth above, new businesses will subject us to additional business and operating risks, such as the acquisitions not being accretive to our unitholders as a result of decreased profitability, increased interest expense related to debt we incur to make such acquisitions or an inability to successfully integrate those operations into our overall business operation. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Debt we have incurred or will incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make principal and interest payments on our debt; · we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend on, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic and weather conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our future indebtedness, we would be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. The agreements governing our indebtedness permit us to incur additional debt under certain circumstances, and we will likely need to incur additional debt in order to implement our growth strategy. We may experience adverse consequences from increased levels of debt. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and the value of our common units. Our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt or issue letters of credit; · redeem or repurchase units; · make certain loans, investments and acquisitions; · incur certain liens or permit them to exist; · engage in sale and leaseback transactions; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; · enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions; · change the nature of our business or enter into a substantially different business; · merge or consolidate with another company; and · transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. 27 Table of Contents We are permitted to make distributions to our unitholders under our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement so long as no default or event of default exists both immediately before and after giving effect to the declaration and payment of the distribution and the distribution does not exceed available cash for the applicable quarterly period. Our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement also contain covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Please read “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity, Sources of Capital and Capital Resource Activities — Long-Term Debt.” The provisions of our revolving credit facility and note purchase agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a covenant violation, default or an event of default that could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral we granted them to secure our debts. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any then exist, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our existing and future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them for the transportation and marketing of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may be suspended in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees that we charge to customers increase pursuant to our contracts with them. Additionally, some customers’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of crude oil, condensate, and/or natural gas liquids are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, and related transportation and hedging activities, and our processing of wastewater, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of energy commodities, and any related transportation and/or hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Additionally, to the extent that we enter into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation or we become subject to FERC regulation ourselves (see Risk Factor entitled “Some of our transportation services could become subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC,” below), we will be obligated to comply with FERC’s regulations and policies. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies at that time, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) provides for statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. Certain transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges and cash collateral will have to be posted. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a potential exemption from these 28 Table of Contents clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. Since the Dodd-Frank Act mandates the CFTC to promulgate rules to define these terms, we do not know the definitions the CFTC will actually adopt or how these definitions will apply to us. Although the CFTC established position limits on certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts, with exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions, those limits were vacated by federal district court on September 28, 2012, and will not go into effect until the CFTC prevails on appeal of this ruling, or issues and finalizes revised rules. Additionally, In December 2012, the CFTC published final rules regarding mandatory clearing of four classes of interest rate swaps and two classes of credit swaps and setting compliance dates of March 11, 2013, June 10, 2013, and, for end users of swaps, September 9, 2013. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time. However, new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act may also materially affect our customers and materially and adversely affect the demand for our services. We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Comprehensive, Safety, Analysis, or “CSA.” If our current USDOT safety ratings are downgraded to “Unsatisfactory” or the equivalent in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”) is expected to open a rulemaking docket for purposes of changing its safety rating methodology. Any new methodology adopted in the rulemaking is likely to link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the agency’s new Safety Measurement System or “SMS.” This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system, in which a safety rating is based on relatively infrequent on-site compliance audits at a carrier’s place(s) of business. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that “Satisfactory” ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If we ever receive an “Unsatisfactory” or equivalent rating, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers in our crude oil logistics and water services businesses could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (“DOT”) regulatory requirements, the available pool of qualified truck drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including the FMCSA’s CSA initiative, and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers or require us to pay more to attract and retain drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies will create difficulties in increasing the number of our drivers for our anticipated expansion in our fleet of trucks. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could have difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our business is subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters and the cost of compliance with, violation of or liabilities under, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our profitability. Our operations, including those involving crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, and oil and gas produced wastewater, are subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of such products and materials. We face inherent risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to handling of wastewater and hydrocarbons, such as crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. For instance, our wastewater treatment and transportation business carries with it environmental risks, including leakage from the treatment plants to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater, or accidental spills or releases during the transport of wastewater. Our crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids businesses carry similar risks of leakage and sudden or accidental spills of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, and hydrocarbons. Liability under, or violation of, environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, the impairment or cancellation of operations, injunctions, fines and penalties, reputational damage, expenditures for remediation and liability for natural resource damages, property damage and personal injuries. 29 Table of Contents We use various modes of transportation to carry propane, distillates, crude oil and water, including trucks, railcars and barges, each of which is subject to regulation. With respect to transportation by truck, we are subject to regulations promulgated under federal legislation, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002, which cover the security and transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the United States Department of Transportation, or DOT. We also own and lease a fleet of railcars, the operation of which is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. Our barge transportation operations, which we acquired in 2012, are subject to the Jones Act, a federal law restricting marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens, as well as rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard. Non-compliance with any of these regulations could result in increased costs related to the transportation of our products and could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, under certain environmental laws, we could be subject to strict and/or joint and several liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials. As a result, these laws could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others, such as prior owners or operators of our facilities, or for consequences of our or our predecessor’s actions, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if such actions were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Also, upon closure of certain facilities, such as at the end of their useful life, we have been and may be required to undertake environmental evaluations or cleanups. Additionally, in order to conduct our operations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and other authorizations from various federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities relating to wastewater handling, discharge and disposal, air emissions, transportation and other environmental matters. These authorizations subject us to terms and conditions which may be onerous or costly to comply with, and that may require costly operational modifications to attain and maintain compliance. The renewal, amendment or modification of these permits, approvals and other authorizations may involve the imposition of even more stringent and burdensome terms and conditions with attendant higher costs and more significant effects upon our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. New laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, such as more stringent pollution control requirements or additional safety requirements, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may unfavorably impact us, and could result in increased operating costs and have a material and adverse effect on our activities and profitability. For example, new or proposed laws or regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our costs for treatment of frac flow-back water (or affect our hydraulic fracturing customers’ ability to operate) and cause delays, interruption or termination of our water treatment operations, all of which could have a material and adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Furthermore, our customers in the oil and gas production industry are subject to certain environmental laws and regulations that may impose significant costs and liabilities on them, including as a result of changes in such laws and regulations causing them to become more stringent over time. For example, in April 2012, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued final rules that established new air emission controls for oil and gas production and gas processing operations. The final rule includes a 95% reduction in volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) (which contribute to smog) emitted during the completion of new and modified hydraulically fractured wells. Any significant increased costs or restrictions placed on our customers to comply with environmental laws and regulations could affect their production output significantly. Such an effect could materially and adversely affect our utilization and profitability, thus reducing demand for our midstream services. Such an effect on our customers could materially and adversely affect our utilization and profitability. The adoption or implementation of any new regulations imposing additional reporting obligations on GHG emissions, or limiting GHG emissions from our equipment and operations, could require us to incur significant costs. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to our hydraulic fracturing customers could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and could harm our business. Hydraulic fracturing is a frequent practice in the oil and gas fields in which our water services segment operates. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common process used to facilitate production of natural gas and other hydrocarbon condensates in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations. The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and gas authorities. This process has come under considerable scrutiny from sections of the public as well as environmental and other groups asserting that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Some sections of the public have also asserted that the fracturing process could result in increased seismic activity. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations in response to this perceived threat may unfavorably impact the oil and gas drilling industry. For instance, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing practices involving the use of diesel fuel. At the same 30 Table of Contents time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing activities, the final results of which are expected in 2014. Also, legislation has been introduced, but not adopted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, some states have adopted and other states are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or regulate hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example, Texas, Wyoming and other states have adopted legislation requiring the disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. We cannot predict whether any proposed federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. However, any restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or costly to perform hydraulic fracturing which would negatively impact our customer base resulting in an adverse effect on our profitability. Seasonal weather conditions and natural or man-made disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in various locations across the United States and Canada which may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and natural or man-made disasters. During periods of heavy snow, ice, rain or extreme weather conditions such as high winds, tornados and hurricanes or after other natural disasters such as earthquakes or wildfires, we may be unable to move our trucks or rail cars between locations and our facilities may be damaged, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. In addition, hurricanes or other severe weather in the Gulf Coast region could seriously disrupt the supply of crude oil and natural gas liquids and cause serious shortages in various areas, including the areas in which we operate. These same conditions may cause serious damage or destruction to homes, business structures and the operations of our retail and wholesale customers. Such disruptions could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities are located, and instead lease certain facilities and equipment, and we, therefore, are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land and equipment use which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Additionally, our loss of rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, certain facilities and equipment (or parts thereof) used by us are leased from third parties for specific periods, including many of our rail cars. Our inability to renew facility or equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We also must operate within the terms and conditions of permits and various rules and regulations from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management for the rights of way on which our pipelines are constructed and the Wyoming State Engineer’s Office for water well, disposal well and containment pits. Our risk policy cannot eliminate all commodity risk, basis risk, or risk of adverse market conditions which can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk policy could result in significant financial losses. Pursuant to the requirements of our risk management policy, we attempt to lock in a margin for a portion of the commodities we purchase by selling such commodities for physical delivery to our customers, such as independent refiners or major oil companies, or by entering into future delivery obligations under contracts for forward sale. Through these transactions, we seek to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between purchases on the one hand, and sales or future delivery obligations on the other hand. These policies and practices cannot, however, eliminate all risks. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply of commodities could expose us to risk of loss resulting from the need to cover obligations required under contracts for forward sale. Additionally, we can provide no assurance that our processes and procedures will detect and/or prevent all violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Transportation costs and 31 Table of Contents timing differentials are components of basis risk. In a backwardated market (when prices for future deliveries are lower than current prices), basis risk is created with respect to timing. In these instances, physical inventory generally loses value as price of such physical inventory declines over time. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated, and basis exposure, particularly in backwardated or other adverse market conditions, can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Growing our business by constructing new transportation systems and facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that supplies for such systems and facilities will not be available upon completion thereof. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our systems and/or the construction of new terminalling, transportation, and wastewater treatment facilities. The construction of such facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our resources, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new wastewater treatment facility, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until at least after completion of the project, if at all. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize or for which we are unable to acquire new customers. We may also rely on estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves in our decision to build new transportation systems and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved, probable or possible reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough product to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with combustible liquids. As a result, we are subject to product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, in the ordinary course of business. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase of our insurance premiums. Some claims brought against us might not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, we have significant self-insured retention amounts which we would have to pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement and we may have insufficient reserves on our balance sheet to satisfy such self-retention obligations. Furthermore, even where the claim is covered by our insurance, our insurance coverage might be inadequate and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. We may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all since insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could materially and adversely effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Volumes of crude oil recovered during the wastewater treatment process can vary. Any significant reduction in residual crude oil content in wastewater we treat will affect our recovery of crude oil and, therefore, our profitability. A significant portion of revenues in our water business is derived from sales of crude oil recovered during the wastewater treatment process. Our ability to recover sufficient volumes of crude oil is dependent upon the residual crude oil content in the wastewater we treat, which is, among other things, a function of water temperature. Generally, where water temperature is higher, residual crude oil content is lower. Thus, our crude oil recovery during the winter season is substantially higher than our recovery during the summer season. Additionally, residual crude oil content will decrease if, among other things, producers begin recovering higher levels of crude oil in produced wastewater prior to delivering such water to us for treatment. Any reduction in residual crude oil content in the wastewater we treat could materially and adversely affect our profitability. A failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our financial results. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. 32 Table of Contents Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our business. We use computer programs to help run our financial and operations sectors, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss, including potential fines for failure to safeguard data, and may negatively impact our reputation. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results. The majority of our retail propane operations are concentrated in the Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest, and localized warmer weather and/or economic downturns may adversely affect demand for propane in those regions, thereby affecting our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our retail propane sales are to residential customers located in the Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest who rely heavily on propane for heating purposes. A significant percentage of our retail propane volume is attributable to sales during the peak heating season of October through March. Warmer weather may result in reduced sales volumes that could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, adverse economic conditions in areas where our retail propane operations are concentrated may cause our residential customers to reduce their use of propane regardless of weather conditions. Localized warmer weather and/or economic downturns may have a significantly greater impact on our operating results and financial condition than if our retail propane business were less concentrated. The counterparties to our commodity derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. We encounter risk of counterparty non-performance primarily in our crude oil logistics and natural gas liquids logistics businesses. Disruptions in the supply of propane and in the oil and gas commodities sector overall for an extended or near term period of time could result in counterparty defaults on our derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts. This could impair our ability to obtain supply to fulfill our sales delivery commitments or obtain supply at reasonable prices, which could result in decreased gross margins and profitability, thereby impairing our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have used derivative financial instruments as a means to protect against commodity price risk or interest rate risk and expect to continue to do so. We may, as a component of our overall business strategy, increase or decrease from time to time our use of such derivative financial instruments in the future. Our use of such derivative financial instruments could cause us to forego the economic benefits we would otherwise realize if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. In addition, although 33 Table of Contents we monitor such activities in our risk management processes and procedures, such activities could result in losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, including internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. Prior to our initial public offering, we were not required to file reports with the SEC. Upon the completion of our initial public offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Effective March 31, 2012, we became subject to the obligation under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to annually review and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Effective March 31, 2013, we became subject to the obligation under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act to engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud, and operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to maintain our internal controls may be unsuccessful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over financial reporting, including our disclosure controls. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions about the effectiveness of internal controls in the future, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls would subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. High Sierra has in the past identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, and the identification of any material weaknesses in the future could affect our ability to ensure timely and accurate financial statements. At the end of several periods during the last five years, High Sierra’s management identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has defined a material weakness as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that reported financial information contains material errors. High Sierra has implemented procedures and controls to address these issues. Although action has been taken to remediate the past material weaknesses in internal controls, these measures may not be sufficient to ensure that our internal controls are effective in the future. Any future material weaknesses, or any failure to effectively address a material weakness or other control deficiency or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm our reputation or disrupt our ability to report key components of our results of operations and financial condition timely and accurately. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. As of March 31, 2013, we had reported goodwill and intangible assets of approximately $1.0 billion. Such assets are subject to impairment reviews on an annual basis, or at an interim date if information indicates that such asset values have been impaired. Any impairment we would be required to record under GAAP would result in a charge to our income, which would reduce our earnings. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. The risk of nonpayment by customers is a concern in all of our operating segments, and our procedures may not fully eliminate this risk. We manage our credit risk exposure through credit analysis, credit approvals, establishing credit limits, requiring prepayments (partially or wholly), requiring propane deliveries over defined time periods and credit monitoring. While we believe our procedures are effective, we can provide no assurance that bad debt write-offs in the future may not be significant and any such non-payment problems could impact our results of operations and potentially limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 34 Table of Contents Some of our operations cross the United States/Canada border and are subject to cross-border regulation. Our cross border activities subject us to regulatory matters, including import and export licenses, tariffs, Canadian and U.S. customs and tax issues and toxic substance certifications. Such regulations include the “Short Supply Controls” of the Export Administration Act, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Violations of these licensing, tariff and tax reporting requirements could result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Some of our transportation services could become subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. Any of our transportation services could in the future become subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, which could adversely affect the terms of service, rates and revenues of such transportation services. Currently, FERC regulates oil and natural gas pipelines, among other things. As of the date of this Annual Report, our facilities do not fall under FERC’s jurisdiction. However, if FERC’s regulatory reach was expanded to our facilities, or if we expand our operations into areas that are subject to FERC’s regulation, we may have to commit substantial capital to comply with such regulations and such expenditures could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We could be required to provide linefill on certain of the pipelines on which we ship product. This could require the use of our working capital, which could potentially impact our ability to borrow additional amounts under our working capital facility to conduct our operations or to make distributions to our unitholders. We have not historically been required to provide the linefill for certain pipelines on which we transport crude oil and natural gas liquids. “Linefill” is the pre-determined minimum level of product a common carrier could require us to maintain in its pipeline and storage in order to facilitate the operations of the facilities. If we were required to provide any portion of the linefill, we would have to purchase product that would have to remain in the pipeline for an extended period of time. Such a requirement would expose us to inventory and price risk and could negatively impact our working capital position, our liquidity, our availability under our working capital facility and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our terminaling operations depend on neighboring pipelines to transport crude oil and natural gas liquids. We own 17 natural gas liquids terminals and four crude oil terminals. These facilities depend on pipeline and storage systems that are owned and operated by third parties. Any interruption of service on the pipeline or lateral connections or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport product to and from our facilities and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities affect the utilization and value of our terminals. We have historically been able to pass through the costs of pipeline transportation to our customers. However, if competing pipelines do not have similar annual tariff increases or service fee adjustments, such increases could affect our ability to compete, thereby adversely affecting our revenues. The financial results of our natural gas liquids businesses are seasonal and generally lower in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year, which may require us to borrow money to make distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. The natural gas liquids inventory we have pre-sold to customers is highest during summer months, and our cash receipts are lowest during summer months. As a result, our cash available for distribution for the summer is much lower than for the winter. With lower cash flow during the first and second fiscal quarters, we may be required to borrow money to pay distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. Any restrictions on our ability to borrow money could restrict our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A significant increase in fuel prices may adversely affect our transportation costs. Fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the delivery of products to our customers. A significant increase in fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to us. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. As a result, any increases in these prices may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness. The risk of terrorism and political unrest in various energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and the supply of crude oil and the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas. An act of terror in any of the major energy producing regions of the world could potentially result in disruptions in the supply of crude oil and natural gas, the major sources of propane, which could have a material impact on the availability and price of propane. 35 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks in the areas of our operations could negatively impact our ability to transport propane to our locations. These risks could potentially negatively impact our results of operations. We depend on the leadership and involvement of key personnel for the success of our businesses. We have certain key individuals in our senior management who we believe are critical to the success of our business. The loss of leadership and involvement of those key management personnel could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business and possibly on the market value of our units. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty. Fiduciary duties owed to our unitholders by our general partner are prescribed by law and our partnership agreement. The Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware LP Act, provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, restrict the fiduciary duties owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: 36 Table of Contents · limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; · provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning our general partner subjectively believed that the decision was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the partnership; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us; and · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. The NGL Energy GP Investor Group owns and controls our general partner and its 0.1% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has certain fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Furthermore, since certain executive officers and directors of our general partner are executive officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, conflicts of interest may arise between the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. See “— Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty.” The risk to our unitholders due to such conflicts may arise because of the following factors, among others: · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group, in resolving conflicts of interest; · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us; · except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; 37 Table of Contents · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; · our general partner may cause us to borrow funds to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; · our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $20.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; · our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and · our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, certain members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and their affiliates currently hold interests in other companies in the energy and natural resource sectors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, they could potentially compete with us for acquisition opportunities and for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by its members and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove 38 Table of Contents our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their direct transferees and their indirect transferees approved by our general partner (which approval may be granted in its sole discretion) and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without the consent of our unitholders. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group to transfer all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party. Prior to the first day of the first quarter beginning after the tenth anniversary of the closing date of our initial public offering, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner requires (except in certain limited circumstances) the consent of a majority of our outstanding common units (excluding common units held by our general partner and its affiliates). However, after the expiration of this period, our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Cost reimbursements to our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In determining the costs and expenses allocable to us, our general partner is subject to its fiduciary duty, as modified by our partnership agreement, to the limited partners, which requires it to act in good faith. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. We are managed and operated by executive officers and directors of our general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates, will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily on external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, as well as reserves we have established 39 Table of Contents to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. We may issue additional units without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the interests of existing unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. Our issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of available cash for distribution on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may elect to cause us to issue common units while also maintaining its general partner interest in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights. This could result in lower distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions on its incentive distribution rights based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner interests to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. 40 Table of Contents Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: · we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware LP Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. For the purpose of determining the fair value of the assets of a limited partnership, the Delaware LP Act provides that the fair value of property subject to liability for which recourse of creditors is limited shall be included in the assets of the limited partnership only to the extent that the fair value of that property exceeds the nonrecourse liability. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We could lose our status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough “qualifying income.” If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless, for each taxable year, 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying income” under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas and natural gas products or other passive types of income such as certain interest and dividends. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation, we could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if our gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in our business or there is a change in current law. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 41 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could, among other things, cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. Moreover, such modifications and change in interpretations may affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder’s tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sell units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. 42 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), Keogh plans and other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury Regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of unitholders. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are corporations for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. Our corporate subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS or other state or local jurisdictions were to successfully assert that our corporate subsidiaries have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department, however, has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. Therefore, the use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 43 Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties for failure to file a timely return if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. Purchasers of our common units may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, holders of our common units are subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own or control property now or in the future. Holders of our common units are required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in a number of states, most of which impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 