Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Management and Oversight The Company's risk management framework and governance structure are intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in its business activities. The Company's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk is critical to both its soundness and profitability. 17 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors oversees our risk management process, including the company-wide approach to risk management, carried out by our management. Our Board approves the Company's business plans and the policies that set standards for the nature and level of risk the Company is willing to assume. The Board receives reports on the Company's management of critical risks and the effectiveness of risk management systems. While our full Board maintains the ultimate oversight responsibility for the risk management process, its committees, including the audit and risk committee, the compensation committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee, oversee risk in certain specified areas. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for developing an Enterprise Risk Management framework to identify, manage and mitigate risks across our Company. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk on our non-covered assets. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Similarly, we have credit risk embedded in our securities portfolio. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of market conditions in recent years. The continued potential for economic disruption presents considerable risks to us. Although the economic slowdown that the U. S. and our market areas have experienced has begun to reverse and markets have generally improved, there is no assurance that this improvement will be sustained or will continue. It is difficult to determine the many ways in which a decline in economic or market conditions or a failure of those conditions to continue to improve may impact the credit quality of our asset or our business in general. The Loss Sharing Agreements only cover certain legacy assets, and credit losses on assets not covered by the Loss Sharing Agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses that represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio. This estimate requires management to make certain assumptions and involves a high degree of judgment, particularly as our new loan portfolio is not yet seasoned and has not yet developed an observable loss trend. Management considers numerous factors in determining the amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses, including, but not limited to, internal risk ratings, loss forecasts, collateral values, delinquency rates, historical loss severities, the level of non-performing and restructured loans in the loan portfolio, product mix, underwriting practices, portfolio trends, industry conditions, economic trends and net charge-off trends. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient and we may be required to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Adverse economic conditions could make management's estimate even more complex and difficult to determine. Any increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Analysis of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses." Our business is susceptible to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income. The current low level of market interest limits our ability to add higher yielding assets to the balance 18 Table of Contents sheet. A prolonged period of low rates may exacerbate downward pressure on our net interest margin and have a negative impact on our net interest income in the future. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period of rising rates, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios, and our overall operating results. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest bearing liabilities; however, interest rate risk management techniques are not precise, and we may not be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We may not be successful in executing our strategy of creating a strong franchise in the Tri-State market. An important component of our growth strategy is to create a strong franchise in the Tri-State market by expanding our branch network in the area, including through our recent acquisition of Herald. The primary market we serve is Florida and there is no guarantee that we will be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably the branch locations currently operated by Herald or be able to expand our branch network in the Tri-State market. Consumer and commercial banking in this market is highly competitive, with a large number of community and regional banks and also a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks. We will be competing with other state and national financial institutions located in the Tri-State market, as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions for deposits and loans. Failure to comply with the terms of our Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. A significant portion of BankUnited's revenue continues to be derived from the covered assets. The Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC provide that a significant portion of losses related to the covered assets will be borne by the FDIC. Under the Loss Sharing Agreements, we are obligated to comply with certain loan servicing standards, including requirements to participate in government-sponsored loan modification programs. As these standards continue to evolve, we may experience difficulties in complying with the requirements of the Loss Sharing Agreements, which could result in covered assets losing some or all of their coverage. BankUnited's compliance with the terms of the Loss Sharing Agreements is subject to audit by the FDIC through its designated agent. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. See Item 1 "Business—The FSB Acquisition." 19 Table of Contents The geographic concentration of our markets in the coastal regions of Florida makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions and natural disasters. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our branch offices are primarily concentrated in the coastal regions of Florida. Additionally, a significant portion of our loans secured by real estate are secured by commercial and residential properties in Florida. The Florida economy and our market in particular were affected by the downturn in commercial and residential property values, and the decline in real estate values in Florida during the downturn was higher than the national average. Additionally, the Florida economy relies heavily on tourism and seasonal residents. Disruption or deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve or the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, or a man-made catastrophe, such as the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, could result in one or more of the following: •an increase in loan delinquencies; •an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; •a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or •a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. Hurricanes and other catastrophes to which our markets in the coastal regions of Florida are susceptible also can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of collateral and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any decline in existing and new real estate sales could decrease lending opportunities, delay the collection of our cash flow from the Loss Sharing Agreements, and could negatively affect our income. Delinquencies and defaults in residential mortgages have created a backlog in courts and an increase in the amount of legislative action that might restrict or delay our ability to foreclose and hence delay the collection of payments for single family residential loans under the Loss Sharing Agreements. For the single family residential loans covered by the Loss Sharing Agreements, we cannot collect loss share payments until we liquidate the properties securing those loans. These loss share payments could be delayed by an extended foreclosure process, including delays resulting from a court backlog, local or national foreclosure moratoriums or other delays, and these delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Homeowner protection laws may also delay the initiation or completion of foreclosure proceedings on specified types of residential mortgage loans. Any such limitations are likely to cause delayed or reduced collections from mortgagors. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forgo a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms could negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs and risks associated with the ownership of real property, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans, in which case, we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including: •general or local economic conditions; •environmental cleanup liability; 20 Table of Contents •neighborhood values; •interest rates; •real estate tax rates; •operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; •supply of and demand for rental units or properties; •ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; •zoning laws; •governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and •hurricanes or other natural or man-made disasters. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may also adversely affect our operating expenses. Our loan portfolio is affected by residential and commercial real estate prices and the level of residential and commercial real estate sales. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. We make credit and reserve decisions based on current real estate values, the current conditions of borrowers or projects and our expectations for the future. If the real estate market does not recover or if real estate values decline, we could experience higher delinquencies and charge-offs beyond that provided for in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Although we have the Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC, these agreements do not cover 100% of the losses attributable to covered assets. In addition, the Loss Sharing Agreements will not mitigate any losses on our non-covered assets and our earnings could be adversely affected through a higher than anticipated provision for loan losses on such assets. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team. We believe our senior management team possesses valuable knowledge about and experience in the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships would be very difficult to replicate. Although our senior management team has entered into employment agreements with us, they may not complete the term of their employment agreements or renew them upon expiration. Our success also depends on the experience of our branch managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of service of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and may be unable to manage our growth due to acquisitions. An important component of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. We compete with other financial institutions for acquisition opportunities and there are a limited number of candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. Consequently, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, we would not be able to execute a strategy of growth by acquisition and we would be required to depend on other methods to grow our business. 21 Table of Contents Even if suitable candidates are identified and we succeed in consummating future acquisitions, acquisitions involve risks that the acquired business may not achieve anticipated revenue, earnings or cash flows. There may also be unforeseen liabilities relating to the acquired institution or arising out of the acquisition, asset quality problems of the acquired entity, difficulty operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited experience and other conditions not within our control, such as adverse personnel relations, loss of customers because of change in identity, and deterioration in local economic conditions. In addition, the process of integrating acquired entities will divert significant management time and resources. We may not be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably any financial institutions we may acquire. We may experience disruption and incur unexpected expenses in integrating acquisitions. Any acquisitions we do make may not enhance our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during periods in which the acquisitions are being integrated into our operations. We face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may decrease our growth or profits. The primary market we serve is Florida. Consumer and commercial banking in Florida is highly competitive. Our market contains not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks. We compete with other state and national financial institutions located in Florida and adjoining states as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates, as well as non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for certain products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: •the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe and sound assets; •the ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively; •the ability to expand our market position; •the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; •the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; •customer satisfaction with our level of service; and •industry and general economic trends. 22 Table of Contents Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource our major systems including our electronic funds transfer transaction processing, cash management and online banking services. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits, provide customer service, facilitate collections and share data across our organization. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate business. Reputational risks could affect our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. There continues to be significant volatility and uncertainty in the global economy which has affected and may continue to affect the markets in which we operate. In particular, the current uncertainty in Europe, including concerns that certain European countries may default on payments 23 Table of Contents due on their sovereign debt, and any resulting disruption may affect interest rates, consumer confidence levels and spending, bankruptcy and default rates, commercial and residential real estate values, and other factors. While we do not have direct exposure to European sovereign debt or the European credit markets, market disruptions in Europe could spread into markets in which we operate. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could have adverse effects on our business including: •A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; •A decrease in the value of our assets; and •An increase in loan delinquencies and defaults. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. There remains significant uncertainty surrounding the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and the full extent of the impact of the requirements on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act, see Item 1 "Business—Regulation and Supervision—The Dodd-Frank Act." We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legal requirements that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect customers, depositors, the DIF, and the overall financial stability of the United States, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that BankUnited and Herald can pay to us, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the business plan filed with the OCC could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan. In conjunction with the conversion of its charter to that of a national bank, BankUnited was required to file a business plan with the OCC. Failure to comply with the business plan could subject the Bank to regulatory actions that could impede our ability to execute our business strategy. The provisions of the business plan restrict our ability to engage in business activities outside of those contemplated in the business plan without regulatory approval. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect us. Federal banking agencies, including the OCC and Federal Reserve Board, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in BankUnited's or Herald's capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate BankUnited's or Herald's deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted. Many of our new activities and expansion plans require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on the competition, our financial condition, and our future prospects. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly enter into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carries with it numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches may impact our business plans and restrict our growth. 25 Table of Contents Financial institutions, such as BankUnited and Herald, face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements, and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions programs and rules administered and enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we are dedicating significant resources to the enhancement of our anti-money laundering program, adopting enhanced policies and procedures and implementing a new, robust automated anti-money laundering software solution. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our expansion plans. We are subject to the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The FDIC's restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. As a result of economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay FDIC premiums higher than current levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 