ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this 2013 Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this 2013 Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: We have a history of significant operating losses and as such our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. Our future revenue and operating profitability are difficult to predict and are uncertain. We have recorded significant losses from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit and continue to make improvements on our expense controls. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain operating profitability on an annual or quarterly basis, or at all. The Company may need to raise additional equity or capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company's liquidity and capital resources remain limited. There can be no assurance that the Company's liquidity or capital resource position would allow it to continue to pursue its current business strategy. As a result, the Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs. The Company’s ability to raise additional equity or capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the equity or capital markets at that time, which are outside of its control, and its financial performance. Any occurrence that may limit the Company's access to the equity or capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. An inability to raise additional equity or capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, future equity transactions could be dilutive to the Company's shareholders. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. If the material weaknesses are not remediated, then they could result in material misstatements to the financial statements. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result of such weaknesses, our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2013. These material weaknesses were identified in connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, and were determined not to have been remediated as of December 31, 2013. Until remediated, these material weaknesses could result in material misstatements to our interim or annual consolidated financial statements and disclosures that may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with SEC rules and regulations, which could result in delisting actions by The Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") and the Toronto Stock Exchange (the "TSX") and investigation and sanctions by regulatory authorities. Any of these results could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. We may fail to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange. We have received non-compliance notices from Nasdaq as a result of our failure to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and our failure to maintain an audit committee of at least three members. A failure to regain and maintain compliance with such standards could result in delisting and could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment, and harm our business. We can provide no assurance that we will satisfy the conditions required to maintain our listing on Nasdaq or the TSX and, even if we satisfy the conditions, Nasdaq or the TSX may not continue our listing. The Company has announced that, if necessary to cure the minimum bid price deficiency, the Company will effect a reverse stock split. If the reverse stock split is implemented, a decline in the market price of our common stock may result in a greater percentage decline than would occur in the absence of a reverse stock split. 8 Failure to retain our current customers and renew existing customer contracts could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain current customers and renew existing customer service agreements. Our ability to retain current customers depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price, and responsiveness of the services we offer, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing customer contracts at the same or higher rates or that our current customers will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to bring the services we provide in-house, or terminate existing service agreements. The failure to renew existing service agreements or the loss of a significant number of existing service agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in economic conditions that impact the industries in which our end-users primarily operate in could adversely affect our business. During the last few years, conditions throughout the U.S. and worldwide have been weak and those conditions may not improve in the foreseeable future. As a result, our customers or vendors may have financial challenges, unrelated to us that could impact their ability to continue doing business with us. Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users, who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities. The recent decline in economic activity is adversely affecting these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We cannot assure you that current or future economic conditions, and the impact of those conditions on our customer base, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 9 The financial condition and operating ability of third parties may adversely affect our business. We purchase the majority of our dispensing equipment and dish machines from a limited number of suppliers. Should any of these third party suppliers experience production delays, we may need to identify additional suppliers, which may not be possible on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. A delay in the supply of our chemicals or equipment could adversely affect relationships with our customer base and could cause potential customers to delay their decision to purchase services or cause them not to purchase our services at all. We market and sell our products and services through independent third-party distributor partners. In recent years, we have expanded our distributor program, which provides us with additional opportunities for organic growth. Our distributor program is targeted toward regional and local foodservice distributors that are seeking not only to increase the revenue and margin they can drive by increasing the number of products they deliver to each customer. In effect, by us partnering to be the service arm for the distributor, we help to generate demand for our rental equipment and our consumable products. The loss of one or more of our distributors, or the decision by one or more of them to reduce the number of our products they offer or to carry the product lines of our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or a disruption in the operations of one or more of our distributors, may adversely affect our business. In the event that any of the third parties with whom we have significant relationships files a petition in or is assigned into bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or makes any arrangements or otherwise becomes subject to any proceedings under bankruptcy or insolvency laws with a trustee, or a receiver is appointed in respect of a substantial portion of its property, or such third party liquidates or winds up its daily operations for any reason whatsoever, then our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. We may recognize impairment charges which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their fair values. This assessment resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of $93.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets could indicate that an impairment of the carrying value of such assets may have occurred that could result in a significant, non-cash write-down of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The availability of our raw materials and the volatility of their costs may adversely affect our operations. We use a number of key raw materials in our business. An inability to obtain such key raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Also the prices of many of these raw materials are cyclical. If we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing or pricing actions, future increases in costs of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings; the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could negatively affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. We are and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of these matters could require additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. The pricing, terms, and length of customer service agreements may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts. The amount of risk we bear and our profit potential will vary depending on the type of service agreements under which products and services are provided. We may be unable to fully recover costs on service agreements that limit our ability to increase prices, particularly on multi-year service agreements. In addition, we may provide services under multi-year service agreements that guarantee maximum costs for the customer based on specific criteria, for example, cost per diner, or cost per passenger day, putting us at risk if we do not effectively manage customer consumption. Our ability to manage our business under the constraints of these service agreements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 10 If we are required to change the pricing models for our products or services to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate in are highly competitive. We compete with national, regional, and local providers, some of whom have greater financial and marketing resources than us, in the same markets primarily on the basis of brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. Some of our competitors may bundle products and services that compete with our products and services for promotional purposes as a long-term pricing strategy or may provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. Also, competitors may develop new or enhanced products and services more successfully and sell existing or new products and services better than we do. In addition, new competitors may emerge. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products and services. If we cannot offset price reductions or other pricing strategies with a corresponding increase in sales or decrease in spending, then the reduced revenue resulting from lower prices would adversely affect our margins, operating costs, and profitability. The loss of one or more key members of our senior management, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on the continued efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The loss of one or more key members of our senior management team could disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of the remaining members of the senior management team, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our personnel. Competition for personnel can be intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel needed to support our business. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It may be necessary for us to increase the level of compensation paid to existing or new employees to a degree that our operating expenses could be materially increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Increases in fuel and energy costs and fuel shortages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely and have generally increased. Fuel price increases raise the costs of operating vehicles and equipment. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in fuel costs or whether we will be able to pass these increased costs through to our customers. A fuel shortage, higher transportation costs or the curtailment of scheduled service could adversely impact our profitability. If we experience delays in the delivery of products to our customers, or if the services or products are not provided to the customers at all, relationships with our customers could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. As a result, future increases in fuel costs or fuel shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our products contain hazardous materials and chemicals, which could result in claims against us. We use and sell a variety of products that contain hazardous materials and chemicals. Like all products of this nature, misuse of the hazardous material based products can lead to injuries and damages but in all cases if these products are used at the prescribed usage levels with the proper PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) and procedures the chances of injuries and accidents are extremely rare. Nevertheless, because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims, or removal or remediation of such substances. We may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of exposure to such substances or by governmental or regulatory bodies related to our handling and disposing of these substances. Because of the unpredictable nature of personal injury and property damage litigation and governmental enforcement, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. Any such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, that are resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 11 We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, and may be adversely affected by new and changing laws and regulations, that generate ongoing environmental costs and could subject us to liability. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources, and workplace health and safety. These include, among other things, reporting on chemical inventories and risk management plans, and the management of hazardous substances. Violations of existing laws and enactment of future legislation and regulations could result in substantial penalties, temporary or permanent facility closures, and legal consequences. Moreover, the nature of our existing and historical operations exposes us to the risk of liability to third parties. The potential costs relating to environmental, solid waste, and product registration laws and regulations are uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws, regulations or policies could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated or expire, those items may need to be recalled or withdrawn from sale. We may need to recall, voluntarily or otherwise, the products we sell if products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or if they become adulterated or expire. Widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. A significant product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and loss of customer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in the types or variety of our service offerings could affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the types or variety of products and services offered to our customers. For example, as we continue to evolve our business to include a greater combination of products with our services, the amount of money required for the purchase of additional equipment and training for associates may increase. Additionally, the gross margin on product sales is often less than gross margin on service revenue. These changes in variety or adjustment to product and service offerings could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Prior acquisitions involve a number of risks and could have an adverse effect on results of operations. The success of any acquisition depends on management’s ability following the transaction to consolidate operations and integrate departments, systems and procedures, and thereby create business efficiencies, economies of scale, and related cost savings. As a result, prior acquisitions involve various risks, such as uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities, including undisclosed liabilities, and potential profitability of acquired companies. There is a risk of potential losses of key employees and customers of an acquired business and of an inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions or have a negative impact on the fair value of the acquired companies. Accordingly, goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions could become impaired. Additionally, previously undisclosed liabilities could be identified and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names, formulas and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, including “Swisher” and “Sani-Service.” We may not seek to register every one of our marks either in the U.S. or in every country in which it is used. As a result, we may not be able to adequately protect those unregistered marks. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the U.S. and Canada. Failure to protect such proprietary information and brand names could impact our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 Interruptions in our information and telecommunication systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could adversely affect our business. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our business. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet and wireless communications, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, determining reorder points and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing, and electronic communications among business locations. We also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption due to system conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees. Also, our computer systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our proprietary information. Interruptions in information and telecommunication systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, require us to incur significant investments to fix or replace them, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. Insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. Our business is subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the operations of a company in the cleaning and maintenance solutions industry. We maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death, property damage, or environmental liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business and our current levels of insurance may not be able to be maintained or available at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to substantial price volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors listed below and other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: ● low trading volume, which could cause even a small number of purchases or sales of our stock to have an impact on the trading price of our common stock; ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; ● significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies; ● short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving our common stock; and ● sales of shares in the open market or the perception that such shares could occur. Certain stockholders may exert significant influence over any corporate action requiring stockholder approval. As of March 12, 2014, Messrs. Huizenga and Berrard own approximately 28% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders may be in a position to exert significant influence over any corporate action requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, determination of significant corporate actions, amendments to Swisher’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and the approval of any business transaction, such as mergers or takeover attempts, in a manner that could conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Although there are no agreements or understandings between the former Swisher International stockholders as to voting, if they voted in concert, they could exert significant influence over Swisher Hygiene. Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: ● the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; ● the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings; ● the requirement that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating director candidates or proposing business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders; ● the ability of the our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; ● the requirement that the authorized number of directors be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; and ● the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 