Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this annual report, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this annual report and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: We have a history of significant operating losses and as such our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. Our future revenue and operating profitability are difficult to predict and are uncertain. We recorded an operating loss of $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and have accumulated operating losses of $64.6 million since January 1, 2005. In addition, we recorded operating losses of approximately $6.8 million and $10.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain operating profitability on an annual or quarterly basis or at all. We may be harmed if we do not penetrate markets and grow our current business operations. If we fail to further penetrate our core and existing geographic markets, or to successfully expand our business into new markets or through the right sales channels, the growth in sales of our products and services, along with our operating results, could be materially adversely impacted. One of our key business strategies is to grow our business through acquisitions. Acquisitions involve many different risks, including (1) the ability to finance acquisitions, either with cash, debt, or equity issuances; (2) the ability to integrate acquisitions; (3) the ability to realize anticipated benefits of the acquisitions; (4) the potential to incur 17 Table of Contents unexpected costs, expenses, or liabilities; and (5) the diversion of management attention and company resources. Many of our competitors may also compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price of acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that efforts to increase market penetration in our core markets and existing geographic markets will be successful. Further, we cannot ensure that we will be able to acquire businesses at the same rate that we have in the past. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future and no assurance can be given that such capital will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We will require substantial capital or available debt or equity financing to execute on acquisition and expansion opportunities that may come available. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financial resources on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain such financial resources could adversely affect our plans for growth, or result in our being unable to satisfy financial or other obligations as they come due, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although the current credit environment has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or cost of borrowing, the availability of funds has tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt have increased. Therefore, obtaining additional or replacement financing may be more difficult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility will likely be at a higher cost than under our current credit facilities. In addition, the current credit and capital markets could adversely impact the liquidity or financial conditions of suppliers or customers, which could, in turn, impact our business or financial results. Until we completed the Merger, a significant amount of our cash requirements were met through loans or advances from the former Swisher International stockholders; however, none of these former stockholders have agreed to provide the company additional loans, advances, or guarantees in the future. We have completed a new $100 million senior secured credit facility. Borrowings under the new credit facility are capped at $32.5 million until delivery of our unaudited March 31, 2011 financial statements. Borrowings and availability under the credit facility are subject to compliance with financial covenants, including achieving specified Consolidated EBITDA targets and maintaining specified leverage and liquidity ratios. The credit facility also places restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, create liens or other encumbrances, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, and merge or consolidate with other entities. Failure to achieve or maintain the financial covenants in the new credit facility or failure to comply with one or more of the operational covenants could adversely affect our ability to borrow monies and could result in a default under the new credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain compliance with the financial and operational covenants in the credit facility. Further, we cannot assure you that sufficient financing will be available in the future on a timely basis, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In the event that financing is not available or is not available in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us, the implementation of our acquisition strategy could be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Failure to attract, train, and retain personnel to manage our growth could adversely impact our operating results. Our strategy to grow our operations may place a greater strain on our managerial, financial and human resources than that experienced by our larger competitors, as they have a larger employee base and administrative support group. As we grow we will need to: • build and train sales and marketing staff to create an expanding presence in the evolving marketplace for our products and services, and to keep staff informed regarding the features, issues and key selling points of our products and services; 18 Table of Contents • attract and retain qualified personnel in order to continue to develop reliable and saleable products and services that respond to evolving customer needs; and • focus personnel on expanding our internal management, financial and product controls significantly, so that we can maintain control over our operations and provide support to other functional areas within our business as the number of personnel and the size of our operations increases. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified marketing, sales and managerial personnel in the future. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary management, technical, sales and marketing personnel may adversely affect our future growth and profitability. It may be necessary for us to increase the level of compensation paid to existing or new employees to a degree that our operating expenses could be materially increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to properly integrate the operations of acquired businesses and achieve anticipated benefits of cost savings or revenue enhancements. Our business strategy includes growing our business through acquisitions. The success of any business combination depends on management’s ability following the transaction to consolidate operations and integrate departments, systems and procedures, and thereby create business efficiencies, economies of scale, and related cost savings. In addition, the acquired customer base must be integrated into the existing service route structure to improve absorption of fixed costs and create operational efficiencies. The retention and integration of the acquired customer base will be a key factor in realizing the revenue enhancements that should accompany each acquired business. We cannot assure you that future results will improve as a result of cost savings and efficiencies or revenue enhancements from any future acquisitions or proposed acquisitions, and we cannot predict the timing or extent to which cost savings and efficiencies or revenue enhancements will be achieved, if at all. For these reasons, if we are not successful in timely and cost-effectively integrating future acquisitions and realizing the benefits of such acquisitions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may incur unexpected costs, expenses, or liabilities relating to undisclosed liabilities of our acquired businesses. In the course of performing due diligence investigations on the companies or businesses we may seek to acquire, we may fail or be unable to discover liabilities of the acquisition candidate that have not otherwise been disclosed. These may include liabilities arising from non-compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws by prior owners, pending or threatened litigation, and undisclosed contractual obligations, for each of which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Although we will generally seek to minimize exposure to such liabilities by obtaining indemnification from the sellers of the acquired companies, we cannot assure you that such indemnifications, even if obtainable, will be enforceable, collectible, or sufficient in amount, scope, or duration to fully offset the potential liabilities arising from the acquisitions. We may recognize impairment charges which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their fair values. Our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets could indicate that an impairment of the carrying value of such assets may have occurred that could result in a material, non-cash write-down of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Goodwill resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets are expected to increase principally as a result of future acquisitions, and potential impairment of goodwill and amortization of other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We consider various factors in determining the purchase prices of acquired businesses, and it is not anticipated that any material portion of the goodwill related to any of these acquisitions will become impaired or that other intangible assets will be required to be amortized over a period shorter than their expected useful lives. However, future earnings could be materially adversely affected if management later determines either that the remaining balance of goodwill is impaired or that shorter amortization periods for other intangible assets are required. Future issuances of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on your investment. Subsequent to December 31, 2010 and through March 28, 2011, we have issued 34,440,366 shares of our common stock and we will continue to issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or for other business purposes, or under the Swisher Hygiene Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Plan”). Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our common stock as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. The benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. Pursuant to the Plan, our board of directors may grant stock options, restricted stock units, or other equity awards to our directors and employees. When these awards vest or are exercised, the issuance of shares of our common stock underlying these awards may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The Plan and the grants thereunder are subject to stockholder and TSX approval. Future sales of Swisher Hygiene shares by our stockholders could affect the market price of our shares. We issued an aggregate of 57,789,630 shares of Swisher Hygiene common stock in the Merger and an additional 37,821,570 shares or shares underlying convertible notes since the Merger in connection with acquisitions and in private placement transactions. All of these shares are subject to registration rights, and we intend to file registration statements to register these shares for resale as soon as practicable after we file this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Once the registration statements are effective, any sales of the shares in the open market pursuant to the registration statements could cause the price of our shares to decline. Of the Swisher Hygiene shares issued in the Merger, 55,789,632 shares issued to the former Swisher International shareholders, including shares held by H. Wayne Huizenga and Steven R. Berrard, are subject to lock-up agreements. Pursuant to the lock-up agreements, the locked-up stockholders may not, subject to certain exceptions, offer, sell, contract to sell or enter into any other agreement to transfer the economic consequences of any Swisher Hygiene shares for a period ending the earlier of (i) the date of the public release of Swisher Hygiene’s earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 and (ii) March 31, 2012. In addition, an aggregate of 32,908,424 shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Choice and in the Private Placement are subject to lock-up agreements that expire June 24, 2011. After these lock-up agreements terminate, the market price of Swisher Hygiene shares could decline as a result of sales by these stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, might also make it more difficult for Swisher Hygiene to sell equity securities at a time and price that is deemed appropriate. In addition, Swisher Hygiene may issue additional shares of common stock as part of the purchase price of future acquisitions or in connection with future financings. Any actual sales, or any perception that sales of a substantial number of shares may occur, could adversely affect the market price of Swisher Hygiene common stock. 20 Table of Contents Our business and growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our franchisees and international licensees, and our brand reputation may be harmed by actions out of our control that are taken by franchisees and international licensees. A portion of our earnings are expected to come from royalties and other amounts paid to us by our franchisees and international licensees. Franchisees and licensees are independent operators and have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations, and their employees are not our employees. We provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, franchisees, but the quality of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Despite the operating obligations the franchisees and licensees are subject to pursuant to our operations manual or the franchise or licensee agreements, franchisees may not successfully operate their business in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements and may not hire and train qualified managers and other personnel. While we may ultimately take action to terminate franchisees and licensees that do not comply with the standards contained in the franchise or licensee agreements and our operations manual, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, potentially causing revenue to decline. Any operational shortcoming of a franchisee is likely to be attributed by the public to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenue and operating results. Furthermore, if a significant number of the franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unwilling or unable to pay for products and supplies purchased from us or pay royalties, rent or other fees, we would experience a decrease in our revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to retain our current customers and renew existing customer contracts could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain current customers and renew existing customer service agreements. Our ability to retain current customers depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price, and responsiveness of the services we offer, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing customer contracts at the same or higher rates or that our current customers will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to bring the services we provide in-house, or terminate existing service agreements. The failure to renew existing service agreements or the loss of a significant number of existing service agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The pricing, terms, and length of customer service agreements may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts. The amount of risk we bear and our profit potential will vary depending on the type of service agreements under which products and services are provided. We may be unable to fully recover costs on service agreements that limit our ability to increase prices, particularly on multi-year service agreements. In addition, we may provide services under multi-year service agreements that guarantee maximum costs for the customer based on a specific criteria, for example, cost per diner, or cost per passenger day, putting us at risk if we do not effectively manage customer consumption. Our ability to manage our business under the constraints of these service agreements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions that impact the industries in which our end-users primarily operate in could adversely affect our business. During the last few years, conditions throughout the U.S. and worldwide have been extremely weak and those conditions may not improve in the foreseeable future. As a result, our customers or vendors may have financial challenges, unrelated to us that could impact their ability to continue doing business with us. Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users, who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities. The 21 Table of Contents recent decline in economic activity is adversely affecting these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We cannot assure you that current or future economic conditions, and the impact of those conditions on our customer base, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our solid waste collection operations are geographically concentrated and are therefore subject to regional economic downturns and other regional factors. Our solid waste collection operations and customers are located in Florida. Therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations are susceptible to regional economic downturns and other regional factors, including state regulations and budget constraints and severe weather conditions. In addition, as we seek to expand in our existing markets, opportunities for growth within this region will become more limited and the geographic concentration of our business will increase. If we are required to change the pricing models for our products or services to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The cleaning and maintenance solutions and the solid waste services industries are highly competitive. We compete with national, regional, and local providers, many of whom have greater financial and marketing resources than us, in the same markets primarily on the basis of brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. To remain competitive in these markets, we may be required to reduce our prices for products and services. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may be required to lower prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such change would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Some of our competitors may bundle products and services that compete with our products and services for promotional purposes as a long-term pricing strategy or may provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. Also, competitors may develop new or enhanced products and services more successfully and sell existing or new products and services better than we do. In addition, new competitors may emerge. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products and services. If we cannot offset price reductions or other pricing strategies with a corresponding increase in sales or decrease in spending, then the reduced revenue resulting from lower prices would adversely affect our margins, operating costs, and profitability. Furthermore, as is generally the case in the solid waste services industry; some municipal contracts are subject to periodic competitive bidding. We may not be the successful bidder to obtain or retain these contracts. If we are unable to compete with larger and better capitalized companies, or to replace municipal contracts lost through the competitive bidding process with comparable contracts or other revenue sources within a reasonable time period, our revenue would decrease and our operating results would be harmed. In our solid waste disposal markets we also compete with operators of alternative disposal and recycling facilities and with counties, municipalities and solid waste districts that maintain their own waste collection, recycling and disposal operations. We are also increasingly competing with companies which seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy supplies. These entities may have financial advantages because of their ability to charge user fees or similar charges, impose tax revenue, access tax-exempt financing and in some cases utilize government subsidies. Several members of our senior management team are critical to our business and if these individuals do not remain with us in the future, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Their skills, experience and industry contacts are expected to significantly benefit our business. The loss of any member of our senior management team would disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of the remaining members of the senior management team, which could have a material adverse effect on our 22 Table of Contents business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the market for qualified management is highly competitive, we may not be able to retain our leadership team or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at existing compensation levels. We do not carry “key-person” insurance on the lives of our senior management team or management personnel to mitigate the impact that the loss of a key member of our management team would cause. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly with us, our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The financial condition and operating ability of third parties may adversely affect our business. We will initially conduct limited manufacturing operations and will primarily depend, and for the foreseeable future will continue to depend, on third parties for the manufacture of the products we sell. We will rely on third party suppliers to provide us with components and services necessary for the completion and delivery of our products and services. We expect to significantly expand our customer base and product offerings, but our expansion may be limited by the manufacturing capacity of third party manufacturers. Such manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, particularly if there are raw material shortages. We purchase the majority of our chemicals from independent manufacturers and our dispensing equipment and dish machines are also primarily supplied by a limited number of suppliers. Should any of these third party suppliers experience production delays, we may need to identify additional suppliers, which may not be possible on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. A delay in the supply of our chemicals or equipment could adversely affect relationships with our customer base and could cause potential customers to delay their decision to purchase services or cause them not to purchase our services at all. In the event that any of the third parties with whom we have significant relationships files a petition in or is assigned into bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or makes any arrangements or otherwise becomes subject to any proceedings under bankruptcy or insolvency laws with a trustee, or a receiver is appointed in respect of a substantial portion of its property, or such third party liquidates or winds up its daily operations for any reason whatsoever, then our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely and have generally increased. Fuel price increases raise the costs of operating vehicles and equipment. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in fuel costs or whether we will be able to pass these increased costs through to our customers. If fuel costs rise, the operating costs of our solid waste collection operations and distribution operations would increase, resulting in a decrease in margins and profitability. A fuel shortage, higher transportation costs or the curtailment of scheduled service could adversely impact our relationship with customers and franchisees and reduce our profitability. If we experience delays in the delivery of products to our customers, or if the services or products are not provided to the customers at all, relationships with our customers could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. As a result, future increases in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our products contain hazardous materials and chemicals, which could result in claims against us. We use and sell a variety of products that contain hazardous materials and chemicals. There are hazardous chemicals in some of our products but in all cases these materials have short term hazardous actions 23 Table of Contents that can easily be neutralized or disposed of with minimal effect on the environment or situations that would require long term remediation treatments due to environmental contamination. Like all products of this nature, misuse of the hazardous material based products can lead to injuries and damages but in all cases if these products are used at the prescribed usage levels with the proper PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) and procedures the chances of injuries and accidents are extremely rare. Nevertheless, because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims, or removal or remediation of such substances. We may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of exposure to such substances or by governmental or regulatory bodies related to our handling and disposing of these substances. Because of the unpredictable nature of personal injury and property damage litigation and governmental enforcement, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. Any such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, that are resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, and may be adversely affected by new and changing laws and regulations, that generate ongoing environmental costs and could subject us to liability. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources, and workplace health and safety. These include, among other things, reporting on chemical inventories and risk management plans, and the management of hazardous substances. Violations of existing laws and enactment of future legislation and regulations could result in substantial penalties, temporary or permanent facility closures, and legal consequences. Moreover, the nature of our existing and historical operations exposes us to the risk of liability to third parties. The potential costs relating to environmental, solid waste, and product registration laws and regulations are uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws, regulations or policies could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Future changes in laws or renewed enforcement of laws regulating the flow of solid waste in interstate commerce could adversely affect our operating results. Various states and local governments have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws and regulations that restrict the disposal within the jurisdiction of solid waste generated outside the jurisdiction. In addition, some state and local governments have promulgated, or are considering promulgating, laws and regulations which govern the flow of waste generated within their respective jurisdictions. Additionally, public interest and pressure from competing industry segments has caused some trade associations and environmental activists to seek enforcement of laws regulating the flow of solid waste. If successful, these groups may advocate for the enactment of similar laws in neighboring jurisdictions through local ballot initiatives or otherwise. All such waste disposal laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and review. Court decisions, congressional legislation, and state and local regulation in the waste disposal area could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, those items may need to be recalled. We may need to recall the products we sell if products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or if they become adulterated. Widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. A significant product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and loss of customer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. 24 Table of Contents Changes in the types or variety of our service offerings could affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the types or variety of products and services offered to our customers. For example, as we begin to evolve our business to include a greater combination of products with our services, the amount of money required for the purchase of additional equipment and training for associates may increase. Additionally, the gross margin on product sales is often less than gross margin on service revenue. These changes in variety or adjustment to product and service offerings could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, including “Swisher” and “Sani-Service.” We may not seek to register every one of our marks either in the U.S. or in every country in which it is used. As a result, we may not be able to adequately protect those unregistered marks. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the U.S. and Canada. Failure to protect such proprietary information and brand names could impact our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our information and telecommunication systems against disruptions or failures, our operations could be disrupted. We are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, determining reorder points and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing, and electronic communications among business locations. We also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Future system disruptions, security breaches, or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or may result in financial damage or loss due to lost or misappropriated information. Insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. Our business is subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the operations of a company in the cleaning and maintenance solutions and the solid waste services industries. We maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death, property damage, or environmental liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business and our current levels of insurance may not be able to be maintained or available at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our current size and growth strategy could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate more than some of our larger, more established competitors or other public companies. Our revenue is difficult to forecast and we believe it is likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as we continue to grow. Some of the factors affecting our future revenue and results, many of which will be outside of our control and are discussed elsewhere in the Risk Factors, include: • competitive conditions in our industries, including new products and services, product announcements and incentive pricing offered by our competitors; • the ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales and professional services staff; • the ability to develop and maintain relationships with partners, franchisees, distributors, and service providers; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for, and timing of, chemical, equipment and services purchases; • the length and variability of the sales cycles for our products and services; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our ability to complete our service obligations in a timely manner; and • timing of product development and new product and service initiatives. Given our current amount of revenue, particularly as compared with some of our competitors, even minor variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into revenue could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately, and have a greater impact on our results than the same variations would have on the results of our larger competitors. In light of the foregoing, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily representative of future results and should not be relied upon as indications of likely future performance or annual operating results. Any failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share or other operating results could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain stockholders may exert significant influence over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As of March 31, 2011, Messrs. Huizenga and Berrard own 30.8% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result, these stockholders may be in a position to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, determination of significant corporate actions, amendments to Swisher’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and the approval of any business transaction, such as mergers or takeover attempts, in a manner that could conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Although there are no agreements or understandings between the former Swisher International stockholders as to voting, if they voted in concert, they would exert significant influence over Swisher Hygiene. Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay 26 Table of Contents attempts by stockholders to replace or remove management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings; • the requirement that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating director candidates or proposing business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders; • the ability of the our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; • the requirement that the authorized number of directors be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; and • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 