ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this 2012 Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this 2012 Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: We have a history of significant operating losses and as such our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. Our future revenue and operating profitability are difficult to predict and are uncertain. We recorded losses from continuing operations of approximately $58.9 million, $34.6 million and $15.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain operating profitability on an annual or quarterly basis, or at all. Matters relating to or arising from our recent restatement could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. On March 28, 2012, we announced that the previously issued interim financial statements for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, and the other financial information in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods then ended, should no longer be relied upon and may require restatement. These announcements, subsequent related announcements and delays in completing our public filings led to litigation claims and potential regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty raising equity capital or obtaining other financing, such as lines of credit or otherwise. Moreover, we have been and may continue to be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement adjustments and resulting restatement and negative reactions from our stockholders, creditors or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. The negative publicity and uncertainty of the litigation resulting from the restatements has impacted our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and vendors, and may continue to do so in the future. Concerns include 1) the perception of the work effort required to address the Company’s accounting and control environment, 2) the ability for the Company to be a long term provider to customers, and 3) the Company’s ability to timely pay outstanding balances to vendors, including landlords and key suppliers. In connection with the restatements of our previously issued financial statements and the evaluations of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we concluded that as of December 31, 2011, we identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, although management began an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, management did not complete its assessment. Based on the deficiencies identified, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. Had management completed its evaluation as of December 31, 2012 additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting might have been identified. Should we identify other deficiencies or be unable to remediate any such deficiencies promptly and effectively, such deficiencies could harm our operating results, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Any litigation or other proceeding or adverse publicity relating to our deficiencies or any future deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to properly integrate the operations of previously acquired businesses and achieve anticipated benefits of cost savings or revenue enhancements. During 2010 and 2011, our business strategy included growing our business through a significant number of acquisitions. The success of any business combination depends on management’s ability following the transaction to consolidate operations and integrate departments, systems and procedures, and thereby create business efficiencies, economies of scale, and related cost savings. In addition, the acquired customer base must be integrated into the existing service route structure to improve absorption of fixed costs and create operational efficiencies. The retention and integration of the acquired customer base will be a key factor in realizing the revenue enhancements that should accompany each acquired business. We cannot assure you that future results will improve as a result of cost savings and efficiencies or revenue enhancements from any prior acquisitions, and we cannot predict the timing or extent to which cost savings and efficiencies or revenue enhancements will be achieved, if at all. For these reasons, if we are not successful in timely and cost-effectively integrating acquisitions and realizing the benefits of such acquisitions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may incur unexpected costs, expenses, or liabilities relating to undisclosed liabilities of our acquired businesses. In the course of performing our acquisition strategy, we may not have identified liabilities of the acquisition candidate that were not otherwise disclosed. These may include liabilities arising from non-compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws by prior owners, pending or threatened litigation, and undisclosed contractual obligations, for each of which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. We cannot assure you that such indemnifications, even if obtainable, will be enforceable, collectible, or sufficient in amount, scope, or duration to fully offset the potential liabilities arising from the acquisitions. We may fail to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange. We have received delisting notices from NASDAQ and the TSX as a result of our delinquent filings and failure to hold an annual meeting during 2012. If we fail to remain current in our public filings or fail to hold an annual meeting by June 5, 2013, our common stock may be delisted. A delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment, and harm our business. We can provide no assurance that we will satisfy the conditions required to maintain our listing on NASDAQ or the TSX and, even if we satisfy the conditions, NASDAQ or the TSX may not continue our listing. Failure to attract, train, and retain personnel to manage our growth could adversely impact our operating results. Our strategy to grow our operations may place a greater strain on our managerial, financial and human resources than that experienced by our larger competitors, as they have a larger employee base and administrative support group. As we grow we will need to: ● build and train sales and marketing staff to create an expanding presence in the evolving marketplace for our products and services, and to keep staff informed regarding the features, issues and key selling points of our products and services; ● attract and retain qualified personnel in order to continue to develop reliable and saleable products and services that respond to evolving customer needs; and ● focus personnel on expanding our internal management, financial and product controls significantly, so that we can maintain control over our operations and provide support to other functional areas within our business as the number of personnel and the size of our operations increases. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified marketing, sales and managerial personnel in the future. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary management, technical, sales and marketing personnel may adversely affect our future growth and profitability. It may be necessary for us to increase the level of compensation paid to existing or new employees to a degree that our operating expenses could be materially increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents We may recognize impairment charges which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their fair values. Our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets could indicate that an impairment of the carrying value of such assets may have occurred that could result in a material, non-cash write-down of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets are expected to increase as a result of future acquisitions, and potential impairment of goodwill and amortization of other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We consider various factors in determining the purchase prices of acquired businesses, and it is not anticipated that any material portion of the goodwill related to any of these acquisitions will become impaired or that other intangible assets will be required to be amortized over a period shorter than their expected useful lives. However, future earnings could be materially adversely affected if management later determines either that the remaining balance of goodwill is impaired or that shorter amortization periods for other intangible assets are required. Failure to retain our current customers and renew existing customer contracts could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain current customers and renew existing customer service agreements. Our ability to retain current customers depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price, and responsiveness of the services we offer, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing customer contracts at the same or higher rates or that our current customers will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to bring the services we provide in-house, or terminate existing service agreements. The failure to renew existing service agreements or the loss of a significant number of existing service agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The pricing, terms, and length of customer service agreements may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts. The amount of risk we bear and our profit potential will vary depending on the type of service agreements under which products and services are provided. We may be unable to fully recover costs on service agreements that limit our ability to increase prices, particularly on multi-year service agreements. In addition, we may provide services under multi-year service agreements that guarantee maximum costs for the customer based on specific criteria, for example, cost per diner, or cost per passenger day, putting us at risk if we do not effectively manage customer consumption. Our ability to manage our business under the constraints of these service agreements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in economic conditions that impact the industries in which our end-users primarily operate in could adversely affect our business. During the last few years, conditions throughout the U.S. and worldwide have been weak and those conditions may not improve in the foreseeable future. As a result, our customers or vendors may have financial challenges, unrelated to us that could impact their ability to continue doing business with us. Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users, who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities. The recent decline in economic activity is adversely affecting these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We cannot assure you that current or future economic conditions, and the impact of those conditions on our customer base, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents If we are required to change the pricing models for our products or services to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate in are highly competitive. We compete with national, regional, and local providers, many of whom have greater financial and marketing resources than us, in the same markets primarily on the basis of brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. To remain competitive in these markets, we may be required to reduce our prices for products and services. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may be required to lower prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such change would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Some of our competitors may bundle products and services that compete with our products and services for promotional purposes as a long-term pricing strategy or may provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. Also, competitors may develop new or enhanced products and services more successfully and sell existing or new products and services better than we do. In addition, new competitors may emerge. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products and services. If we cannot offset price reductions or other pricing strategies with a corresponding increase in sales or decrease in spending, then the reduced revenue resulting from lower prices would adversely affect our margins, operating costs, and profitability. Several members of our senior management team are critical to our business and if these individuals do not remain with us in the future, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Their skills, experience and industry contacts are expected to significantly benefit our business. The loss of any member of our senior management team could disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of the remaining members of the senior management team, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the market for qualified management is highly competitive, we may not be able to retain our leadership team or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at existing compensation levels. We do not carry “key-person” insurance on the lives of our senior management team or management personnel to mitigate the impact that the loss of a key member of our management team would cause. As a potential result of the loss of services of one or more of these individuals, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly with us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The financial condition and operating ability of third parties may adversely affect our business. We purchase the majority of our dispensing equipment and dish machines from a limited number of suppliers. Should any of these third party suppliers experience production delays, we may need to identify additional suppliers, which may not be possible on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. A delay in the supply of our chemicals or equipment could adversely affect relationships with our customer base and could cause potential customers to delay their decision to purchase services or cause them not to purchase our services at all. In the event that any of the third parties with whom we have significant relationships files a petition in or is assigned into bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or makes any arrangements or otherwise becomes subject to any proceedings under bankruptcy or insolvency laws with a trustee, or a receiver is appointed in respect of a substantial portion of its property, or such third party liquidates or winds up its daily operations for any reason whatsoever, then our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. The availability of our raw materials and the volatility of their costs may adversely affect our operations. We use a number of key raw materials in our business. An inability to obtain such key raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Also the prices of many of these raw materials are cyclical. If we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing or pricing actions, future increases in costs of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Increases in fuel and energy costs and fuel shortages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely and have generally increased. Fuel price increases raise the costs of operating vehicles and equipment. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in fuel costs or whether we will be able to pass these increased costs through to our customers. A fuel shortage, higher transportation costs or the curtailment of scheduled service could adversely impact our relationship with customers and franchisees and reduce our profitability. If we experience delays in the delivery of products to our customers, or if the services or products are not provided to the customers at all, relationships with our customers could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. As a result, future increases in fuel costs or fuel shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our products contain hazardous materials and chemicals, which could result in claims against us. We use and sell a variety of products that contain hazardous materials and chemicals. Like all products of this nature, misuse of the hazardous material based products can lead to injuries and damages but in all cases if these products are used at the prescribed usage levels with the proper PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) and procedures the chances of injuries and accidents are extremely rare. Nevertheless, because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims, or removal or remediation of such substances. We may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of exposure to such substances or by governmental or regulatory bodies related to our handling and disposing of these substances. Because of the unpredictable nature of personal injury and property damage litigation and governmental enforcement, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. Any such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, that are resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, and may be adversely affected by new and changing laws and regulations, that generate ongoing environmental costs and could subject us to liability. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources, and workplace health and safety. These include, among other things, reporting on chemical inventories and risk management plans, and the management of hazardous substances. Violations of existing laws and enactment of future legislation and regulations could result in substantial penalties, temporary or permanent facility closures, and legal consequences. Moreover, the nature of our existing and historical operations exposes us to the risk of liability to third parties. The potential costs relating to environmental, solid waste, and product registration laws and regulations are uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws, regulations or policies could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated or expire, those items may need to be recalled or withdrawn from sale. We may need to recall, voluntarily or otherwise, the products we sell if products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or if they become adulterated or expire. Widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. A significant product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and loss of customer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Changes in the types or variety of our service offerings could affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the types or variety of products and services offered to our customers. For example, as we continue to evolve our business to include a greater combination of products with our services, the amount of money required for the purchase of additional equipment and training for associates may increase. Additionally, the gross margin on product sales is often less than gross margin on service revenue. These changes in variety or adjustment to product and service offerings could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names, formulas and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, including “Swisher,” "Daley" and “Sani-Service.” We may not seek to register every one of our marks either in the U.S. or in every country in which it is used. As a result, we may not be able to adequately protect those unregistered marks. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the U.S. and Canada. Failure to protect such proprietary information and brand names could impact our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are unable to protect our information and telecommunication systems against disruptions or failures, our operations could be disrupted. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our business. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet and wireless communications, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, determining reorder points and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing, and electronic communications among business locations. We also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption due to system conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may have interruptions in our ability to service our customers. This disruption caused by the unavailability of our computer systems could significantly disrupt our operations or may result in financial damage or loss due to lost or misappropriated information. Insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. Our business is subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the operations of a company in the cleaning and maintenance solutions industry. We maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death, property damage, or environmental liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business and our current levels of insurance may not be able to be maintained or available at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Our current size and growth strategy could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate more than some of our larger, more established competitors or other public companies. Our revenue is difficult to forecast and we believe it is likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as we continue to grow. Some of the factors affecting our future revenue and results, many of which will be outside of our control and are discussed elsewhere in the Risk Factors, include: ● competitive conditions in our industries, including new products and services, product announcements and incentive pricing offered by our competitors; ● the ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales and professional services staff; ● the ability to develop and maintain relationships with partners, franchisees, distributors, and service providers; ● the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for, and timing of, chemical, equipment and services purchases; ● the length and variability of the sales cycles for our products and services; ● strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; ● our ability to complete our service obligations in a timely manner; and ● timing of product development and new product and service initiatives. Given our current revenue, particularly as compared with some of our competitors, even minor variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into revenue could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately, and have a greater impact on our results than the same variations would have on the results of our larger competitors. In light of the foregoing, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily representative of future results and should not be relied upon as indications of likely future performance or annual operating results. Any failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share or other operating results could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Certain stockholders may exert significant influence over any corporate action requiring stockholder approval. As of January 31, 2013, Messrs. Huizenga and Berrard own approximately 28% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders may be in a position to exert significant influence over any corporate action requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, determination of significant corporate actions, amendments to Swisher’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and the approval of any business transaction, such as mergers or takeover attempts, in a manner that could conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Although there are no agreements or understandings between the former Swisher International stockholders as to voting, if they voted in concert, they could exert significant influence over Swisher Hygiene. 16 Table of Contents Future issuances of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or pursuant to our stock incentive plan could have a dilutive effect. Since the Merger through December 31, 2012, we have issued up to 4,069,773 shares of common stock and shares underlying convertible notes and may continue to issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or for other business purposes, or under the Amended and Restated Swisher Hygiene Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Plan”). Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our common stock as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. The benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. Pursuant to the Plan, our board of directors may grant stock options, restricted stock units, or other equity awards to our directors and employees. When these awards vest or are exercised, the issuance of shares of our common stock underlying these awards may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Future sales of Swisher Hygiene shares by our stockholders could affect the market price of our shares. We issued an aggregate of 57,789,630 shares of Swisher Hygiene common stock in the Merger, including 55,789,632 shares issued to H. Wayne Huizenga, Steven R. Berrard, and other former Swisher International shareholders. Any sales of the shares in the open market or the perception that such sales could occur could cause the price of our shares to decline and might also make it more difficult to sell our equity securities at a time and price that is deemed appropriate. Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: ● the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; ● the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings; ● the requirement that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating director candidates or proposing business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders; ● the ability of the our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; ● the requirement that the authorized number of directors be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; and ● the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 