Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Prospective investors in the Company’s common stock should carefully consider the following factors. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions could result in increases in the Company’s level of nonperforming loans and/or reduced demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. The Company’s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in the Company’s primary market area. These conditions include the level of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflation, unemployment levels, real estate values, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in the Company’s market area in particular. The national economy experienced a recession from December 2007 to June 2009, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. The economic recovery since the end of the recession has been weak due to continuing declines in housing prices, natural disasters, sovereign debt concerns in Europe, lingering high unemployment in the United States, and other factors. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with decreasing home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and other loans and investments tied to the residential housing market and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. Our local economy has experienced similar economic conditions, although the deterioration may not be as severe in some respects as the national economy overall. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate, and a majority of our loans are made to individuals and businesses in the localities in which we have offices. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively affect the Company’s interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt the Company’s earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit, which would hurt the Company’s revenues. The Company’s may be required to make further additions to the allowance for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to the Company’s level of nonperforming assets. Further, the allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the loan portfolio. For fiscal 2011, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.7 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $2.5 million. Our nonperforming assets increased in fiscal 2011 from $41.4 million, or 4.3% of total assets and 40.1% of Tier 1 capital at September 30, 2010, to $50.8 million, or 4.6% of total assets and 31.1% of Tier 1 capital, at September 30, 2011. The increase in nonperforming assets was primarily due to continued economic and real estate market weakness and the impact of such on our borrowers and the properties securing our loans. If the economy and/or the real estate market remains unchanged or further weakens, we may be required to add further provisions to our allowance for loan losses as nonperforming assets could continue to increase or the value of the collateral securing loans may be insufficient to cover any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans that its borrowers may not repay in their entirety. The Company has seen an increase in the level of nonperforming assets during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009. The Company believes that it maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date and in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, if the economy and/or the real estate market remains unchanged or further weakens, the Company may be required to add further provisions to the allowance for loan losses as nonperforming assets could continue to increase or the value of the collateral securing loans may be insufficient to cover any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. 17 In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, the Company considers such factors as changes in the types and amount of loans in the loan portfolio, historical loss experience, adverse situations that may affect a borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, personal guarantees, estimated losses relating to specifically identified loans, and current economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including, among others, exposure at default, amount and timing of expected future cash flows on affected loans, value of collateral, personal guarantees, estimated losses on specific loans, as well as consideration of general loss experience. All of these estimates may be susceptible to significant change. While management uses the best information available at the time to make loan loss allowance evaluations, adjustments to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and other conditions or changes in accounting guidance. Estimates of the risk of loss and the amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, the competitive challenges they face, and the effect of current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, the Company’s actual losses may vary materially from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our construction and land and land development loan portfolios may expose us to increased credit risk. In the past 10 years, construction loans, including speculative construction loans, have been a material part of the Company’s loan portfolio. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. At September 30, 2011, $44.0 million, or 8.9% of our loan portfolio, consisted of construction loans, of which $6.0 million consisted of speculative construction loans. Recently the demand for construction loans has decreased significantly due to the decline in the housing market and new home construction, and, in response to these market conditions, management reduced originations of such loans in 2009, 2010, and 2011 compared to pre-recession levels. At September 30, 2011, $67.0 million, or 13.5% of our loan portfolio, consisted of land and land development loans. Land and land development loans have substantially similar risks as speculative construction loans. Subject to market conditions, the Company will continue to de-emphasize the origination of construction and land and land development loans, although we will consider conservatively structured construction and land and land development loans to strong borrowers on smaller developments (generally fewer than a one-to-two year supply of lots), especially when the loans help us resolve nonperforming loans or dispose of foreclosed properties. These loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than owner-occupied residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans depends on the successful construction or development and ultimate sale of the property and, possibly, unrelated cash needs of the borrowers. Also, such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us, so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose the Company to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Nonresidential and multi-family real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2011, $269.9 million, or 54.4%, of the Company’s loan portfolio consists of nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to owner-occupied one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s nonresidential real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. 18 The unseasoned nature of our nonresidential and multi-family real estate loan portfolios may result in changes in collectibility estimates, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. The Company’s nonresidential and multi-family real estate loan portfolios have increased $161.2 million, or 148.2%, from $108.7 million, or 28.9% of total loans at September 30, 2006, to $269.9 million, or 54.4% of total loans at September 30, 2011. A large portion of the nonresidential and multi-family real estate loan portfolios is unseasoned and does not provide the Company with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectibility, especially in this period of unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of the loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk of loss than owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if management makes any errors in judgment in its assessment of the collectibility of the Company’s nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans, any resulting provisions or charge-offs may be larger on a relative basis than those incurred historically with the owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loan portfolio. At September 30, 2011, of the nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans with original loan balances exceeding $1.0 million made since September 30, 2008, all are performing as structured and none are included in classified loan categories except for $2.1 million of loans made in order to work out and improve our collateral position on classified and criticized loans that were made prior to September 30, 2008. Regulatory limits on commercial real estate loans could affect our ability to execute our operating strategy. Continued focus on commercial real estate lending activities is a key component of the Company’s operating strategy. Interagency guidance issued by the banking regulators in 2006 encourages enhanced risk management practices and capital levels for banks with a significant concentration of commercial real estate loans. For purposes of this regulatory guidance, commercial real estate loans include nonresidential real estate, multi-family, construction, and land and land development loans. While federal regulators have not set specific limits on the level of commercial real estate loans banks may hold in portfolio, federal regulators may instruct individual banks to reduce a concentration when they believe it is warranted. As of September 30, 2011, the total of construction and land and land development loans was 64% of the sum of our Tier 1 capital plus the general portion of the allowance for loan losses. The total of construction, land and land development, nonresidential and multi-family loans as of September 30, 2011 was 219% of the sum of our Tier 1 capital plus the general portion of the allowance for loan losses. Declines in the value of investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce earnings. We had net losses for two of the last three fiscal years. A significant reason for the loss in 2010 and the primary reason for the loss in 2009 was the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges in earnings of $2.6 million, $7.6 million, and $20.0 million, respectively, related to our investment portfolio. At September 30, 2011, $21.7 million, or 5.5%, of our available for sale investment securities portfolio was comprised of corporate equity securities held by Franklin Financial. Corporate equity securities are generally considered riskier investments than asset-backed or government guaranteed securities, and therefore, may expose us to a greater degree of loss. During an economic downturn, the Company’s investment portfolio could be subject to higher risk. The value of the investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in the portfolio, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of a guarantor of an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce the Company’s net investment income and result in realized investment losses. The Company’s investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in the consolidated financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Because of the risks set forth above, the value of the Company’s investment portfolio could decrease, the Company could experience reduced net investment income and could incur realized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect the results of operations, financial position and liquidity. 19 Management reviews the securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current amortized cost. When the fair value of any investment security has declined below its amortized cost, management is required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. The Company is required to write-down the value of a security through a charge to earnings if management concludes that a decline is other-than-temporary. In the case of debt securities, the Company is required to charge to earnings any decreases in value that are credit-related. As of September 30, 2011, the amortized cost and the fair value of our securities portfolio totaled $422.9 million and $420.1 million, respectively. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in a charge to earnings to write down these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow or liquidity. Further losses in value in the Company’s investment securities portfolio could result in further impairment write-downs, which would, in turn, reduce earnings. A significant percentage of the Company’s assets are invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment securities, which typically have a lower yield than the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company’s results of operations are substantially dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. At September 30, 2011, 49.1% of the Company’s assets were invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment securities. These investments generally yield substantially less than the loans in the loan portfolio. The Company intends to invest a greater proportion of assets in loans with the goal of increasing net interest income once loan demand, which is currently subdued, improves. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, the Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s primary source of income is net interest income. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, as well as the average life of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of interest-earning assets and the Company’s ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a negative effect on the industry. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have implemented measures intended to improve general economic conditions such as homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; regulatory action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, (5) weakened economic conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated, or (6) continuing competition from United States government agencies and government sponsored enterprises for two of the Company’s main loan products – one-to four-family, owner-occupied residential mortgage loans and multi-family residential mortgage loans. 20 The Company’s business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and its financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if it fails to grow or fails to manage growth effectively. Over the long term, the Company expects to experience growth in assets, deposits and the scale of operations, whether through organic growth or acquisitions. However, achieving growth targets requires the Company to successfully execute its business strategies. The Company’s business strategies include continuing to diversify its loan portfolio with more commercial lending and introducing new and competitive deposit products such as checking accounts to become a full-service community banking institution. The ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet the Company’s more stringent underwriting standards. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, it may not be able to achieve its business plan, and its business and prospects could be adversely affected. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision was eliminated and merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies, including Franklin Financial, are now regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as Franklin Federal, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit the Company’s ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company’s business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on the Company’s operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal bank regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the current economic climate. These actions include entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimum capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s prompt corrective action regulations. If Franklin Financial or Franklin Federal were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to execute its business plans, as well as its ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in the Company’s operations. Increased and/or special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Additional increases in the assessment base, base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively affect the Company’s earnings. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team. The Company relies heavily on its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard T. Wheeler, Jr., and its executive officers, Donald F. Marker, Steven R. Lohr and Barry R. Shenton. The loss of the chief executive officer or other executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations because, as a community bank, the Company has fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to business and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Wheeler, Marker, Lohr and Shenton upon completion of its mutual -to-stock conversion in fiscal 2011. 21 The average age of our depositor base may make our strategy to expand our deposit product offerings more difficult to achieve. The Company recently embarked on a strategy to broaden our deposit products and services, including the introduction of a money market checking account. Until recently, the only core deposit offering was a traditional passbook savings or money market account. Because approximately two-thirds of the Company’s depositor base is comprised of persons over the age of 60, the strategy to expand our deposit product offerings may be more difficult to achieve as the existing depositor base may not utilize new product offerings, and the Company may need to attract new depositors and customers to grow its business. Strong competition within the Company’s market area could reduce profits and slow growth. As the economy recovers, the Company will face more intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult to make new loans and may force the Company to offer lower loan rates and higher deposit rates. Pricing competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which information is available, the Company held 0.99% of the FDIC-insured deposits in the Richmond, Virginia MSA. Some of the institutions with which the Company competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and may offer services that it does not provide. The Company expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and it may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve, its primary federal regulators, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as the insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s operations, the classification of its assets and the determination of the level of its allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material effect on the Company’s operations. While the Company’s common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or other stock exchanges. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of its common stock. The Company can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair its future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated within a range of $10.81 to $12.41 since the closing of its mutual-to-stock conversion, and it will fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 22 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 