Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Prospective investors in the Company’s common stock should carefully consider the following factors. The proposed merger with TowneBank may not be completed or the Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions that must be fulfilled to complete the merger. Those conditions include the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements. In addition, the Merger Agreement requires that the Company have total common stockholders’ equity of not less than $240.0 million as of the month-end prior to the closing date, excluding charges to total common stockholders’ equity requested or agreed to by TowneBank. If these conditions to the closing of the merger are not fulfilled, then the merger may not be completed. Furthermore, the parties may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time, or the parties may elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, our business may be adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management and the board of directors on the merger. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration we are receiving in this merger. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $11.0 million to TowneBank. 18 In connection with the proposed merger, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses, which could prove to be significant. Our business and our operating and financial results may be materially adversely affected by the expenses incurred in connection with the proposed merger. A failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be negatively impacted, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the merger, if the merger is not consummated. The Company will be subject to business uncertainties while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and consequently on TowneBank. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the business, our business could be negatively impacted. The Company is required to take certain actions to expedite the merger that may not be in its best interests if the merger is not consummated. At June 30, 2014, the Company owned corporate equity securities, principally the common stocks of Virginia-based community banking institutions, with an estimated fair value of $15.5 million. These equity securities are not permissible investments of TowneBank, so the Company must sell these corporate equity securities prior to consummation of the merger. These equity securities had net unrealized gains of $8.6 million at June 30, 2014, and the appreciation in these corporate equity securities and the dividends derived therefrom have contributed to the growth of the Company’s comprehensive income and tangible book value over the past two fiscal years. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, the Company sold the majority of its equity securities, and equity securities with an estimated fair value of $785,000 remained at September 30, 2014. If the merger is not consummated, the sale of these securities may adversely affect the Company’s future earnings performance. Likewise at June 30, 2014, the Bank owned corporate debt securities with an estimated fair value of $62.1 million and net unrealized gains of $5.3 million. The Company must meet a minimum total stockholders’ equity requirement of $240.0 million at the end of the month prior to the closing of the merger; thus, the Company is incented to dispose of the corporate debt securities in order to realize the unrealized gains and preserve the related tangible stockholders’ equity. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, the Company sold a large portion of its corporate debt securities, and corporate debt securities with an estimated fair value of $18.2 million remained at September 30, 2014. The sale of these securities will reduce future net interest income and net interest margin, which may have adverse effects on the Company’s earnings performance in the future if the merger is not consummated. The lending philosophies of TowneBank and the Company differ with respect to the geographical orientation of the loan portfolio. At September 30, 2014, approximately 58% of the Company’s loans were in the Richmond metropolitan area and surrounding counties and approximately 17% were in the Hampton Roads area. The remaining 25% of the Company’s loan portfolio was concentrated in areas of Virginia and North Carolina in which neither TowneBank nor the Company currently have offices. Philosophically, TowneBank does not lend outside of its office market territory, so TowneBank may gradually reduce lending in areas in which the Company has traditionally made loans. As the Company adapts to TowneBank’s lending philosophy during the pendency of the Merger Agreement, it must be less aggressive in lending outside of the Richmond and Hampton Roads metropolitan areas prior to consummation of the merger. This may result in lost lending opportunities, which could prove adverse to the Company’s loan growth, net interest income and net interest margin should the merger not be consummated. 19 The Company may be required to make further additions to the allowance for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to the Company’s level of nonperforming assets. Further, the allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the loan portfolio. For fiscal 2014, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $9.9 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.2 million. Our nonperforming assets decreased in fiscal 2014 from $55.8 million, or 5.3% of total assets and 31.0% of Tier 1 capital at September 30, 2013, to $43.5 million, or 4.0% of total assets and 21.5% of Tier 1 capital, at September 30, 2014. The decrease in nonperforming assets was primarily due to improved economic and real estate market conditions, which facilitated the sale of $4.7 million of other real estate owned during the year ended September 30, 2014 as well as charge-offs recorded on nonperforming assets during fiscal 2014. If the economy and/or real estate markets do not sustain this improvement, we may be required to add further provisions to our allowance for loan losses as nonperforming assets could increase or the value of the collateral securing loans may be insufficient to cover any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans that its borrowers may not repay in their entirety. The Company saw an increase in the level of nonperforming assets in 2013. Nonperforming assets decreased during fiscal year 2014 and 2012. The majority of our nonperforming assets relate directly or indirectly to loans made prior to December 31, 2007, when our country’s most recent recession began. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, the Company considers such factors as changes in the types and amount of loans in the loan portfolio, historical loss experience, adverse situations that may affect a borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, personal guarantees, estimated losses relating to specifically identified loans, and current economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including, among others, exposure at default, amount and timing of expected future cash flows on affected loans, value of collateral, personal guarantees, estimated losses on specific loans, as well as consideration of general loss experience. All of these estimates may be susceptible to significant change. While management uses the best information available at the time to make loan loss allowance evaluations, adjustments to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and other conditions or changes in accounting guidance. Estimates of the risk of loss and the amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, the competitive challenges they face, and the effect of current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, the Company’s actual losses may vary materially from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our construction and land and land development loan portfolios may expose us to increased credit risk. In the past 10 years, construction loans, including speculative construction loans, have been a material part of the Company’s loan portfolio. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. At September 30, 2014, $34.2 million, or 6.4% of our loan portfolio, consisted of construction loans, of which $8.9 million consisted of speculative construction loans. Until the past eighteen months, the demand for construction loans decreased significantly due to the decline in the housing market and new home construction and, in response to these market conditions, management reduced originations of such loans in 2011, 2012, and 2013 compared to pre-recession levels. At September 30, 2014, $44.2 million, or 8.3% of our loan portfolio, consisted of land and land development loans. Land and land development loans have substantially similar risks as speculative construction loans. These loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than owner-occupied residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans depends on the successful construction or development and ultimate sale of the property and, possibly, unrelated cash needs of the borrowers. Also, such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us, so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose the Company to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Nonresidential and multi-family real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2014, $353.3 million, or 66.1%, of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to owner-occupied one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s nonresidential real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner-occupied, one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. 20 Regulatory limits on commercial real estate loans could affect our ability to execute our operating strategy. Continued focus on commercial real estate lending activities is a key component of the Company’s operating strategy. Interagency guidance issued by the banking regulators in 2006 encourages enhanced risk management practices and capital levels for banks with a significant concentration of commercial real estate loans. For purposes of this regulatory guidance, commercial real estate loans include nonresidential real estate, multi-family, construction, and land and land development loans. While federal regulators have not set specific limits on the level of commercial real estate loans banks may hold in portfolio, federal regulators may instruct individual banks to reduce a concentration when they believe it is warranted. As of September 30, 2014, the total of construction and land and land development loans for the Bank was 37% of the sum of its Tier 1 capital plus the general portion of the allowance for loan losses. The total of construction, land and land development, nonresidential and multi-family loans as of September 30, 2014 for the Bank was 206% of the sum of its Tier 1 capital plus the general portion of the allowance for loan losses. Declines in the value of investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce earnings. In 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges in earnings of $575,000, $435,000, and $4.7 million, respectively, related to our investment portfolio. At September 30, 2014, $785,000, or 0.5%, of our available for sale investment securities portfolio was comprised of corporate equity securities held by Franklin Financial. Corporate equity securities are generally considered riskier investments than asset-backed or government guaranteed securities, and therefore, may expose us to a greater degree of loss. Since 2011, we have greatly reduced our exposure to corporate equity securities, and in connection with the proposed merger with TowneBank, we have sold nearly all of our corporate equity securities. During an economic downturn, the Company’s investment portfolio could be subject to higher risk. The value of the investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in the portfolio, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of a guarantor of an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce the Company’s net investment income and result in realized investment losses. The Company’s investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid or when longer-term interest rates rise sharply, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in the consolidated financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Because of the risks set forth above, the value of the Company’s investment portfolio could decrease, the Company could experience reduced net investment income and could incur realized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect the results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Management reviews the securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current amortized cost. When the fair value of any investment security has declined below its amortized cost, management is required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. The Company is required to write-down the value of a security through a charge to earnings if management concludes that a decline is other-than-temporary. In the case of debt securities, the Company is required to charge to earnings any decreases in value that are credit-related. As of September 30, 2014, the amortized cost and the fair value of our securities portfolio totaled $259.2 million and $261.7 million, respectively. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in a charge to earnings to write-down these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow or liquidity. Losses in value in the Company’s investment securities portfolio could result in further impairment write-downs, which would, in turn, reduce earnings. 21 A significant percentage of the Company’s assets are invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment securities, which typically have a lower yield than the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company’s results of operations are substantially dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. At September 30, 2014, 44.0% of the Company’s assets was invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment securities. These investments generally yield substantially less than the loans in the loan portfolio. The Company intends to invest a greater proportion of assets in loans with the goal of increasing net interest income as loan demand improves. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, the Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s primary source of income is net interest income. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, as well as the average life of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of interest-earning assets and the Company’s ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and its financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if it fails to grow or fails to manage growth effectively. Over the long term, the Company expects to experience growth in assets, deposits and the scale of operations. However, achieving growth targets requires the Company to successfully execute its business strategies. The Company’s business strategies include continuing to emphasize commercial real estate lending and introducing new and competitive deposit products to become a full-service community banking institution. The ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet the Company’s underwriting standards. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, it may not be able to achieve its business plan, and its business and prospects could be adversely affected. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. In 2010 and 2011, in response to the financial crisis and recession that began in 2008, significant regulatory and legislative changes resulted in broad reform and increased regulation impacting financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk. 22 In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on operations. Federal bank regulators have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimum capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those required under the Dodd-Frank Act or that would otherwise qualify a bank as being “well capitalized” under applicable prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a regulatory agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plan, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Additionally, in early July 2013, the Federal Reserve approved revisions to its capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III and the regulations of the federal banking agencies require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards, Compliance with these rules will impose additional costs on the Company and the Bank. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and increased unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team. The Company relies heavily on its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard T. Wheeler, Jr., and its executive officers, Donald F. Marker, Steven R. Lohr and Barry R. Shenton. The loss of the chief executive officer or other executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations because, as a community bank, the Company has fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to business and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Wheeler, Marker, Lohr and Shenton upon completion of its mutual-to-stock conversion in fiscal 2011, which have subsequently been extended to October 2016. The average age of our depositor base may make our strategy to expand our deposit product offerings more difficult to achieve. Several years ago, the Company embarked on a strategy to broaden our deposit products and services, including the introduction of a money market checking account and a basic demand deposit account. Until recently, the only core deposit offering was a traditional passbook savings or money market account. Because approximately one-half of the Company’s depositor base is comprised of persons over the age of 65, the strategy to expand our deposit product offerings may be more difficult to achieve as the existing depositor base may not utilize new product offerings, and the Company may need to attract new depositors and customers to grow its business. Strong competition within the Company’s market area could reduce profits and slow growth. The Company faces more intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult to make new loans and may force the Company to offer lower loan rates and higher deposit rates. Pricing competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2014, which is the most recent date for which information is available, the Company held 1.01% of the FDIC-insured deposits in the Richmond, Virginia MSA. Some of the institutions with which the Company competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and may offer services that it does not provide. The Company expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 23 The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and it may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve, its primary federal regulators, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as the insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s operations, the classification of its assets and the determination of the level of its allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material effect on the Company’s operations. 24 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 