Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are the material risks we face. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, together with the “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information” and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents that we will file from time to time with the SEC. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We are an early-stage company with a history of incurring net losses. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $14.1 million and $16.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $79.3 million. We do not have any products that have been approved for marketing in the United States, we have not established any sales capability outside of the United States, and we continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with the conduct of clinical trials, continue our research and development programs, seek regulatory approvals, expand our sales and marketing capabilities, increase manufacturing of our system and comply with the requirements related to being a U.S. public company listed on the ASX and the Nasdaq Capital Market. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing products with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing and selling commercial products. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in these activities, and we may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. We will need additional funding to continue operations, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. We have no products currently available for commercial sale in the U.S. and, although we have CE Mark, we have not commenced commercial sales in the EU. To date we have generated only limited revenue from our feasibility study. In addition, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an explanatory paragraph with regard to our ability to continue as a going concern in connection with its audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with the conduct of clinical trials, continue our research and development programs, seek regulatory approvals, expand our sales and marketing capabilities, increase manufacturing of our system and comply with the requirements related to being a U.S. public company listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the ASX. Additional funding will likely be needed and may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funding through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may suffer dilution and our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future income may be limited. If we raise additional funding through debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, require us to use our cash to make payments under such indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our development programs and our commercialization efforts would be delayed, reduced or eliminated, our relationships with our suppliers and manufacturers may be harmed, and we may not be able to continue our operations. Our near-term prospects are highly dependent on the development of a single product, our C-Pulse System. If we fail to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell the C-Pulse System or fail to successfully commercialize this system, our business and prospects would be harmed significantly. Our near-term prospects are highly dependent on the development of a single product, our C-Pulse System, and we have no other product candidates in active development at this time. We are in the process of pursuing regulatory approvals necessary to sell our system in the United States. We completed enrollment of our North American feasibility clinical trial in the first half of 2011. In November 2011, we announced the preliminary results of the six-month follow-up period for the feasibility study and we submitted the clinical data to the FDA. In March 2012, the FDA notified us that it completed its review of the C-Pulse System feasibility trial data, concluded we met the applicable agency requirements, and indicated that we can move forward with an IDE application. In November 2012, the FDA provided us with unconditional approval to initiate a pivotal trial. We currently anticipate that enrollment 17 Table of Contents of the pivotal trial will begin in the first half of 2013. We expect to complete enrollment of our pivotal trial by the end of 2015 and do not anticipate marketing our system in the United States before 2017. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell our system. In addition, even if we obtain such regulatory approvals, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully commercialize our system. If we fail to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell our system or fail to successfully commercialize our system, our business and prospects would be harmed significantly. We currently have no sales, marketing or established distribution operations and will need to expand our expertise in these areas. We currently have no sales, marketing or established distribution operations and, in connection with the expected commercialization of our system, will need to expand our expertise in these areas. To increase internal sales, distribution and marketing expertise and be able to conduct these operations, we would have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. In developing these functions ourselves, we could face a number of risks, including: · we may not be able to attract and build an effective marketing or sales force; · the cost of establishing, training and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force may be substantial; and · there are significant legal and regulatory risks in medical device marketing and sales that we have never faced, and any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing and distribution could result in an enforcement action by the FDA, European regulators or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the system or could subject us to substantial liability. We plan to commercialize our system outside of the United States, which will expose us to risks associated with international operations. We plan to commercialize our system outside of the United States and expect to commence post-market clinical trials in certain European countries in addition to the United States. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks, including: · costs of complying with varying regulatory requirements and potential, unexpected changes to those requirements; · fluctuations in and management of currency exchange rates; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · government-imposed pricing controls on sales of our system; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and legal standards; · increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and · reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that our operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of various critical components for our C-Pulse System. The loss of any of these manufacturer or supplier relationships could delay future clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of our C-Pulse System. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our C-Pulse System and to supply us with all of the critical components of our C-Pulse System, including the balloon, driver, cuff and interface lead. We primarily purchase our components and products on a purchase order basis and do not “second source” any components of our system. If one or more of the suppliers of the components used in our system were unable or unwilling to meet our demand for such components or faced financial or business difficulties in general, or if the components or finished products provided by any of our suppliers do not meet quality and other specifications, clinical trials or commercialization of our system could be delayed and our expenses could increase. Moreover, if any of the suppliers were unable or unwilling to perform, we would be required to find alternative sources for the components provided by such supplier, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement supplier on a timely basis, or at all. In particular, the balloon used in our system is highly specialized and is currently solely available from a single supplier. If the manufacturer of the balloon were unable or unwilling to supply this component for any reason, we would have to locate and qualify another supplier and such supplier and its balloon product would have to be qualified under FDA and European regulations and may require FDA and 18 Table of Contents European submissions, such as PMA Supplement and change notification. Since there is currently no other supplier in the industry, locating and qualifying another supplier could cause significant production delays, causing us to lose revenues and market share and to potentially suffer increased costs and damage to our reputation. Additionally, even if we are able to find a replacement supplier of any of the components used in our system, we may face additional regulatory delays, and the manufacture and delivery of our C-Pulse System could be interrupted for an extended period of time and become significantly more expensive. This could delay completion of future clinical trials or commercialization of our C-Pulse System and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may be required to use different suppliers or components to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If our manufacturers or our suppliers are unable to provide an adequate supply of our system following the start of commercialization, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order to produce our C-Pulse System in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet market demand, we will need our manufacturers to increase, or scale-up, the production process by a significant factor over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to scaling-up manufacturing capacity and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities that may require the investment of substantial additional funds by our manufacturers and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. If our manufacturers are unable to do so, we may not be able to meet the requirements for the launch of the system or to meet future demand, if at all. We also may represent only a small portion of our supplier’s or manufacturer’s business, and if they become capacity constrained they may choose to allocate their available resources to other customers that represent a larger portion of their business. We currently anticipate that we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of our C-Pulse System following commercialization. If we develop and obtain regulatory approval for our system and are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of our system, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to commercialize our system. We have expanded, and expect to continue to expand, our operations and grow our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage any further growth and to commercialize our system, we will be required to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and internal control systems in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We may not be able to correctly estimate or control our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: · the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical studies and obtain regulatory approvals for the products we develop; · the expenses we incur for the research and development required to maintain and improve our system; · the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; · the expenses we incur in connection with commercialization activities, including marketing, sales and distribution; · our sales strategy and whether the revenues from sales of our system will be sufficient to offset our expenses; · the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and · the costs associated with being a public company. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from sales of our C-Pulse System. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our system could have an immediate and material impact on our business and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We compete against many companies, some of which have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources than we do, which may prevent us from achieving further market penetration or improving operating results. Competition from medical device companies and medical device divisions of health care companies, as well as pharmaceutical companies and gene- and cell-based therapies is intense and is expected to increase. Our system will compete against therapies, including pharmacological therapies, as well as other medical device competitors that treat or may treat in the future Class III or ambulatory Class IV heart failure patients, including AbioMed, Inc., Berlin Heart GmbH, CardioKinetix, Inc., CircuLite, Inc., HeartWare International Inc., Jarvik Heart, Inc., MicroMed Technology, Inc., SynCardia Systems, Inc., Terumo Heart, Inc. and Thoratec Corporation, as well as a range of other specialized medical device companies with devices at varying stages of development. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do and have established reputations, as well as worldwide distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities that are larger and more established than ours. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We also face competition from other medical therapies which may focus on our target market as well as competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other devices that have not yet been developed. Competition from these companies could harm our business. In addition, because our system has been implanted in a limited number of patients to date, all of the material risks and potential competitive disadvantages of our system are not necessarily known at this time. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our Company and our system from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: · financial resources; · product performance and design; · product safety; · acceptance of our system in the marketplace; · sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; · manufacturing and assembly costs; · pricing of our system and of our competitors’ products; · the availability of reimbursement from government and private health insurers; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; · regulatory approvals in the United States; and · intellectual property protection. The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of the members of our senior management. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Product defects could harm our results of operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of a product or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to a product (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall of our system could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our system. Personal injuries relating to the use of our system could also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. Any one of these factors could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may be sued for product liability, which could adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices carries a significant risk of product liability claims. Our system treats Class III and ambulatory Class IV heart failure for patients who typically have serious medical issues. As a result, our exposure to product liability claims may be heightened because the people who use our system have a high risk of suffering adverse outcomes, regardless of the safety or efficacy of our system. In addition, because our system has been implanted in a limited number of patients 20 Table of Contents to date, we cannot assure you that we are currently aware of all material risks related to use of our system or that could lead to product liability claims against us. We may be held liable if any product we develop and commercialize causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or consumer use. The safety studies we must perform and the regulatory approvals required to commercialize our system will not protect us from any such liability. We carry product liability insurance with a $10.0 million aggregate limit. However, if there are product liability claims against us, our insurance may be insufficient to cover the expense of defending against such claims, or may be insufficient to pay or settle such claims. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance coverage for commercial sales of any of our approved products. If such insurance is insufficient to protect us, our results of operations will be harmed. If any product liability claim is made against us, our reputation and future sales will be damaged, even if we have adequate insurance coverage. Even if a product liability claim against us is without merit or if we are not found liable for any damages, a product liability claim could result in decreased demand for our system, injury to our reputation, diversion of management’s attention from operating our business, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, significant costs of related litigation, loss of revenue or the inability to commercialize the C-Pulse System. Risks Relating to Regulation We do not have FDA approval for our system and our success will depend heavily on the success of our pivotal trial for our C-Pulse System. Any failure or significant delay in successfully completing our pivotal trial or obtaining regulatory approvals could harm our financial results and our prospects and require us to seek additional funding. Upon completion of the six-month follow-up period for our feasibility trial, we submitted the trial’s clinical data to the FDA in November 2011. In November 2012, the FDA provided us with unconditional approval to initiate a pivotal trial. We currently anticipate that enrollment of our pivotal trial will begin during the first half of 2013. Completion of the pivotal trial could be delayed, and adverse events during the trial could cause us to modify the existing design, repeat or terminate the trial. If the trial is delayed, if it must be repeated or if it is terminated, our costs associated with the trial will increase, and it will take us longer to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize the C-Pulse System, if we are able to do so at all. Our pivotal trial also may be suspended or terminated at any time by regulatory authorities or by us. FDA scrutiny of IDE applications has intensified in recent years, increasing the risk of delay or failure. If we commence and complete our pivotal clinical trial, we must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the C-Pulse System by meeting the trial’s endpoints before we can commercialize the C-Pulse System in the United States. Our inability to achieve the safety or efficacy endpoints in the pivotal trial could delay our timeline for obtaining regulatory approval to commercialize our system or prevent us from obtaining such regulatory approval altogether. In addition to successfully completing our U.S. pivotal trial, we will need to receive approval from regulatory agencies in each country outside the EU in which we seek to sell our system. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval varies from country to country and approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another. In addition, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. We cannot assure you when, or if, we will be able to commence sales in any jurisdiction within or outside the United States. If we are unable to complete our pivotal trial, or experience significant delays in the trial, or if the results of the trial do not meet its safety and efficacy endpoints, our ability to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our system and to generate revenues will be harmed. Even if we obtain foreign regulatory approvals, we will need to obtain FDA approval to commercialize our system in the United States. Even if we obtain foreign regulatory approvals, we will need to obtain FDA approval to commercialize our system in the United States, which will require us to conduct clinical trials in the United States and to complete those trials successfully. If we fail to obtain approval from the FDA, we will not be able to market and sell our system in the United States. We do not currently have the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our C-Pulse System in the United States, which we believe is the largest potential market for our C-Pulse System. We can offer no assurance that our clinical trials will be successful or that we will ever obtain FDA approval of the C-Pulse System or any future products. In order to obtain FDA approval for our C-Pulse System, we will be required to receive a Premarket Approval from the FDA. A PMA must be supported by data from pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy. A clinical trial will be required to support an application for a PMA, and we received FDA approval of our IDE application in November 2012 that will allow us to commence a clinical trial in the United States. We intend to commence our U.S. pivotal trial in the first half of 2013, but 21 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that our U.S. pivotal trial will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if completed, we do not know if this trial will meet its objectives or end-points to show the safety and efficacy of our system so as to support an application for a PMA. The process of obtaining a PMA from the FDA for our C-Pulse System, or any future products or enhancements or modifications to any products, could: · take a significant period of time; · require the expenditure of substantial resources; · involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; · require changes to the product; · require submissions to the FDA, such as PMA Supplements; and · result in failure to support approval of the product or limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Increased attention to safety and oversight issues in light of recent, widely publicized events concerning the safety of certain food, drug and medical device products could cause the FDA to take a more cautious approach in connection with approvals for devices such as ours, which could delay or prevent FDA approval of our C-Pulse System. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals from the FDA or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis. The failure to receive product approval by the FDA would significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to enroll and complete our planned U.S. pivotal trial for the C-Pulse System or other clinical trials, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of the C-Pulse System and impair our financial position. We intend to commence our U.S. pivotal trial in the first half of 2013. The trial will be designed to be a randomized trial that includes approximately 388 patients and is expected to involve approximately 40 sites. Conducting a clinical trial of this size is a complex and uncertain process. The commencement of our trial could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; · manufacturing sufficient quantities of our C-Pulse System; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct the trial at a prospective site; and · obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Once the trial has begun, the completion of the trial and our other ongoing clinical trials could be delayed, suspended or terminated for several reasons, including: · ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our preclinical results or clinical trial or requests for supplemental information with respect to our preclinical results or clinical trial results; · our or our clinical sites’ failure or inability to conduct the clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; · sites currently participating in the trial may drop out of the trial, which may require us to engage new sites or petition the FDA for an expansion of the number of sites that are permitted to be involved in the trial; · patients may not achieve the required clinical end-points of the trial; · patients may not remain in or complete clinical trials at the rates we expect; · patients may experience serious adverse events or side effects during the trial, which, whether or not related to our system, could cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; and · clinical investigators may not perform clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practice requirements. If our pivotal trial is delayed, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Our development costs will also increase if we have material delays in our pivotal trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete, or achieve the desired clinical end-points from, our pivotal trial at all, which could prevent us from receiving regulatory approval for the C-Pulse System altogether. Any of the foregoing could harm our financial results and our prospects and cause us to seek additional funding. 22 Table of Contents We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, and on other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. We have and plan to continue to rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, including our planned U.S. pivotal trial, and other third parties to manage the related data collection and analysis. While we are obligated by regulation to monitor the sites for compliance, we have limited oversight over the clinical investigators and sites and cannot control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials, to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols or comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our system. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical trial sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If sites fail to meet FDA requirements in conducting the trial, we can be held responsible. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our system. Our manufacturers and suppliers might not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to manufacturing and quality processes, which could harm our financial results and prospects. Even if our system receives marketing approval, product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our C-Pulse System. We are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the QSR by controlling our suppliers and requiring that they manufacture in conformance to QSR. A contractor that manufactures a completed device for us is directly subject to the QSR but we also are held responsible by FDA. A contractor that manufactures a component is not subject to the QSR. In those cases we are responsible to FDA for requiring by contract that the component meet QSR standards. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our system. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. A failure by our manufacturers to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could cause a significant delay in our ability to have our system manufactured and to complete our clinical trials and could significantly increase our costs, which would harm our financial results and our prospects. In addition, suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our system must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. We are also subject to the international standard ISO 13485 in other jurisdictions. Like the QSR, ISO 13485 holds us responsible under the Purchasing Controls section for obtaining compliance with the standard by all of our suppliers. We plan to operate in multiple regulatory environments that require costly and time consuming approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the C-Pulse System or any other product that we may develop, sales of our system in other jurisdictions will be subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time and cost required to obtain approvals from these countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for licensing may differ from those of the FDA. Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our system are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign, federal, state or local market laws or regulations or administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies, we could be precluded from commercializing our system in those countries and could become subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. The C-Pulse System may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the C-Pulse System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party health care payors or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: · the perceived effectiveness and price of the product; · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the strength of marketing and distribution support; and 23 Table of Contents · sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our C-Pulse System, or any other product that we may develop, is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party health care payors and the medical community, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our system by third-party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our system or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors significantly affect the market for our system. Reimbursement by third-party payors in the United States typically is based on the device’s perceived benefit and whether it is deemed medically reasonable and necessary. Reimbursement levels of third-party payors in the United States are also based on established payment formulas that take into account part or all of the cost associated with these devices and the related procedures performed. We cannot assure you the level of reimbursement we might obtain in the United States, if any, for our system. If we do not obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for our system by third-party payors in the United States, which we believe is the largest potential market for our system, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be harmed. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored health care and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce additional clinical data, which may involve one or more additional clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our system to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our system in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for the C-Pulse System and limit our ability to sell the C-Pulse System or any future products on a profitable basis. In addition, third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for health care products and services. If reimbursement for our system is unavailable in any market or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our system would be significantly impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be significantly harmed. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to U.S. federal and state health care fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to, or have not fully complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval to market our C-Pulse System, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers and health care professionals, subject to various U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, federal False Claims Act, and federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, and marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program such as Medicare and Medicaid. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal health care covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil and administrative sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs. An alleged violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute may be used as a predicate offense to establish liability pursuant to other federal laws and regulations such as the federal False Claims Act. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for health care items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “relators” or “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of medical device, pharmaceutical and health care companies to have to defend a False Claim Act action. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes provisions expanding 24 Table of Contents the ability of certain relators to bring actions that would have been previously dismissed under prior law. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 encouraged states to enact or modify their state false claims act to be at least as effective as the federal False Claims Act by granting states a portion of any federal Medicaid funds recovered through Medicaid-related actions. Most states have enacted state false claims laws, and many of those states included laws including qui tam provisions. States have until March 31, 2013 to enact or amend their false claims laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act for review and approval to receive a greater portion of any recovery. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals beginning in August 2013 and to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services starting in 2014 for subsequent public disclosure. Manufacturers must also disclose investment interests held by physicians and their family members. Failure to submit the required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to $1.0 million per year for knowing violations and may result in liability under other federal laws or regulations. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. In addition, some states such as Massachusetts and Vermont impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. If we receive FDA clearance to market our system in the United States, these laws could affect our promotional activities by limiting the kinds of interactions we could have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of our system. Both the disclosure laws and gift bans will impose administrative, cost and compliance burdens on us. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, or an administrative action of suspension or exclusion from government health care reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. In addition, to the extent we commence commercial operations overseas, we will be subject to the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other countries’ anti-corruption/anti-bribery regimes, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. The FCPA prohibits improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Safeguards we implement to discourage improper payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may be ineffective, and violations of the FCPA and similar laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, any of which would likely harm our reputation, business, financial condition and result of operations. The expanded regulations under the HITECH Act have increased the possibility that device manufactures might be considered Business Associates in the future, exposing us to penalties for potential breaches of the HIPAA Security Regulation. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and system. As of January 22, 2013, we owned 12 issued patents in the United States and 9 patent applications in the United States, as well as 37 issued patents and 21 patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. We estimate that most of the currently issued U.S. patents will expire between approximately 2020 and 2024. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our system. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our system. 25 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving medical device patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies used in our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: · stop clinical trials or delay or abandon commercialization of our system; · attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or · redesign our system. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our system to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and system could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Our system could infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our system. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture and market our system and technology without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. As our industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our system and technologies of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Our system may infringe or may be alleged to infringe these patents. In addition, some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Another party may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our system or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risk Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock An active trading market for our shares of common stock in the United States may not develop. Our common stock has been listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market only since February 16, 2012 and has experienced limited trading volume. Our common stock has been listed on the ASX in the form of CDIs since 2004 and has also experienced limited trading volume on that exchange. The average daily trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital 26 Table of Contents Market for the three-month period ended December 31, 2012 was approximately 92,000 shares. The reported average daily trading volume in our common stock on the ASX for the three-month period ended December 31, 2012, was approximately 803,000 CDIs (equivalent to approximately 4,000 shares). There can be no assurance that an active public market for our shares will continue to develop in the United States. If an active trading market does not continue to develop in the United States, the market price and liquidity of our common stock would be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market since February 16, 2012 and on the ASX in the form of CDIs since 2004. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, the per share price of our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market ranged from $2.50 to $22.90 from February 16, 2012 to June 30, 2012, and from $3.01 to $13.30 from July 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Our CDI closing price on the ASX ranged from A$0.020 (equivalent to approximately $4.09 per share using a conversion rate of A$1 to $1.0231) to A$0.055 (equivalent to approximately $11.25 per share using a conversion rate of A$1 to $1.0231) for the six months ended June 30, 2012, and from A$0.021 (equivalent to approximately $4.36 per share using a conversion rate of A$1 to $1.0386) to A$0.058 (equivalent to approximately $12.05 per share using a conversion rate of A$1 to $1.0386) from July 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · regulatory developments, disclosure regarding completed, ongoing or future clinical trials and enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales; · reports and recommendations of analysts and whether or not we meet the milestones and metrics set forth in such reports; · introduction of new products; · acquisition or loss of significant manufacturers, distributors or suppliers or an inability to obtain sufficient quantities of materials needed to manufacture our system; · quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; · business acquisitions or divestitures; · changes in governmental or third-party reimbursement practices; · purchases at below prevailing market prices by investors under our February 2012 securities purchase agreement pursuant to their 60-day purchase right; · fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and · fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Our directors and executive officers hold substantial control over us and could limit the ability of our common stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned, in the aggregate (including options or warrants exercisable currently or within 60 days of December 31, 2012), approximately 37.5% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, if acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, financings or other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders and CDI holders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock and CDIs as part of a sale of our Company and may affect the market price of our common stock and CDIs. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and CDIs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Our ability to use U.S. net operating loss carryforwards or Australian tax losses might be limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had U.S. net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $26.6 million for U.S. income tax purposes, which expire from 2022 through 2032. To the extent these NOL carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce any corporate income tax liability associated with our operations we might have in the future. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of 27 Table of Contents NOL carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. As a result, prior or future changes in ownership could put limitations on the availability of our NOL carryforwards. In addition, our ability to utilize the current NOL carryforwards might be further limited by future issuances of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had tax losses in the Commonwealth of Australia of approximately $55.5 million. Continuing utilization of carry forward tax losses in Australia may also be affected by the issuance of our common stock in this offering and in the future. This is because one test for carrying forward tax losses in Australia from year to year requires continuity of ultimate ownership (subject to the relevant tests in Australian tax law) of more than 50% between the loss year and the income year in which the loss is claimed. To the extent our use of our net operating loss carryforwards or tax losses is limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, between the price of our CDIs on the ASX and the price of shares of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Such arbitrage activities could cause our share price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value and could also lead to significant volatility in the price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our products and business. Accordingly, our stockholders and CDI holders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock and CDIs appreciates. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a U.S. reporting company and we have limited experience as a U.S. reporting company. In connection with the effectiveness of our registration statement on Form 10, as of February 14, 2012, we became subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Although we have been listed on the ASX for several years and have been required to file financial information and make certain other filings with the ASX, our status as a U.S. reporting company under the Exchange Act has caused us to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur, including costs related to compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market. We expect these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and these activities may increase general and administrative expenses and divert management’s time and attention away from revenue-generating activities. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential material weaknesses in those controls. In connection with becoming a company required to file reports with the SEC, we are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of SOX until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act or a “smaller reporting company” as defined by applicable SEC rules. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remediating any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively 28 Table of Contents mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our common stock and CDIs may be harmed, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential material weaknesses in those controls. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), or (iv) any other action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the DGCL may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our Board of Directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 66(2/3)% majority stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or adopt new bylaws; providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the directors will be divided into three classes and the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our Board of Directors; and providing that none of our directors may be removed without cause. Section 203 of the DGCL, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our Board of Directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. It may be difficult to effect service of U.S. process and enforce U.S. legal process against our directors. Two of our seven directors reside outside of the United States, principally in Australia. A substantial portion of the assets of these directors also are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons in order to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against these persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Australia, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. This could make it more difficult or impossible for investors to litigate or recover damages from certain of our directors in securities litigation or other claims. We are an “emerging growth company,” under federal securities laws and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of SOX, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. The JOBS Act also permits emerging growth companies to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to U.S. public companies. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we could lose that status sooner if our revenues exceed $1 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and CDIs and our stock price may decline or be more volatile. 29 Table of Contents As explained above, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period, and as a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to those of companies that comply with public company effective dates for new or revised accounting standards for U.S. public companies. Our CDIs are traded on the ASX and we are subject to the Listing Rules of the ASX, which increase our operating costs and subject us to regulations not applicable to most other companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Since 2004, CDIs representing beneficial ownership of our common stock have been traded on the ASX. We therefore are subject to the Listing Rules of the ASX, which regulate certain actions we can take, such as limiting the circumstances under which we may issue shares of our common stock or CDIs without stockholder approval and require us to disregard votes cast by certain stockholders potentially interested in matters to be voted on at annual or special meetings of stockholders when such stockholders are permitted to vote at the meeting in accordance with the DGCL and Nasdaq Listing Rules. Most other companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market are not subject to the additional regulatory requirements imposed by the ASX Listing Rules, which increase our operating costs relative to other Nasdaq-listed companies, may make it more difficult to effect certain corporate actions, and might make an investment in our common stock less attractive to potential purchasers. On February 5, 2013, we received conditional approval from the ASX to delist from the official list of the ASX. The delisting is expected to occur at the close of trading on May 6, 2013. The number of shares of common stock which are registered, including the shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, is significant in relation to our currently outstanding common stock and could cause downward pressure on the market price for our common stock. The number of shares of common stock registered for resale, including those shares which are to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, is significant in relation to the number of shares of common stock currently outstanding. If the security holder determines to sell a substantial number of shares into the market at any given time, there may not be sufficient demand in the market to purchase the shares without a decline in the market price for our common stock. Moreover, continuous sales into the market of a number of shares in excess of the typical trading volume for our common stock, or even the availability of such a large number of shares, could depress the trading market for our common stock over an extended period of time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 