ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business The majority of our services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, and if our customers elect not to renew these agreements, our revenues may decrease. Typically, our services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, which are generally one month to one year in length, with no obligation to renew these agreements. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including the services and prices offered by our competitors, new technologies offered by others, consolidation in our customer base or if some of our customers cease their operations. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to enhance our existing services or develop new services, our services may become obsolete or less competitive and we could lose customers. If we are unable to enhance our existing services or develop new services that keep pace with rapid technological developments and meet our customers’ needs, our business will be harmed. Creating and designing such enhancements and new products entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time, and there is no guarantee that such enhancements and new products will be completed in a timely fashion. Nor is there any guarantee that any new service offerings will gain acceptance among our email marketing customers or by the broader market. For example, our existing email marketing customers may not view any new service as complementary to our email service offerings and therefore decide not to purchase such service. If we cannot enhance our existing services or develop new products or if we are not successful in selling such enhancements and new products to our customers, we could lose customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, which would adversely impact our financial performance. If we are unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used an email service like ours. We rely on a variety of methods to attract new customers, such as paying providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website, direct sales and partner sales. If we are unable to use any of our current marketing initiatives or the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase or such initiatives or our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our business may be adversely affected. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Our relationships with our channel partners may be terminated or may not continue to be beneficial in generating new email marketing customers, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base. We maintain a network of active channel partners, as well as business service providers such as web developers and marketing agencies, on whom we depend to refer customers to us through links on their websites and outbound promotion to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing channel partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential channel partners, we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners over which we exercise very little control, and a significant decrease in the number of gross customer additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenue. 8 If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, the fees we may be able to charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market and customers may cancel their accounts. Internet Service Providers (ISP) can block emails from reaching their users. Recent releases of ISP software and the implementation of stringent new policies by ISPs make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. We continually improve our own technology and work closely with ISPs to maintain our deliverability rates. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the fees we charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market, and customers may cancel their accounts. Our inability to successfully integrate the assets of PreviewMyEmail.com (“PME”) into our Company could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the PME acquisition transaction and our operating results could be harmed. If our Company is to realize the anticipated benefits of the PME asset acquisition, we must be able to efficiently integrate and combine PME’s operations into our Company; and we cannot assure you that this integration will be successful or that the anticipated benefits of the PME acquisition will be fully realized. The dedication of our management resources to integration activities relating to the PME acquisition may detract attention from our day-to-day business operations. We cannot assure you that there will not be substantial costs associated with the integration process, that integration activities will not result in a decrease in revenues or a decrease in the value of our common stock, or that there will not be other material adverse effects from our integration efforts, any of which could harm our operating results. Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results. We are actively evaluating acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing solutions, expand our client base and operations worldwide, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. From time to time, we may enter into letters of intent with companies with which we are negotiating potential acquisitions or investments or as to which we are conducting due diligence. Although we are currently not a party to any binding definitive agreement with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could materially decrease the amount of our available cash or require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. We have limited experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, we may not achieve the synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. If we finance acquisitions using existing cash, the reduction of our available cash could cause us to face liquidity issues or cause other unanticipated problems in the future. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. Our international operations will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. Our international operations present unique challenges and risks to our Company. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could interfere with our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, tax laws, data privacy and filtering requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Our international operations also subject us to additional foreign currency exchange rate risks and will require additional management attention and resources. Our international operations subject us to other inherent risks, including, but not limited to: · the impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; · changes in and differences between regulatory requirements between countries; · U.S. and foreign export restrictions, including export controls relating to encryption technologies; · reduced protection for and enforcement of intellectual property rights in some countries; 9 · potentially adverse tax consequences; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · political and economic instability; · tariffs and other trade barriers; and · seasonal reductions in business activity. Our failure to address these risks adequately could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by the devaluation of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and could be adversely affected by the rate of inflation in the European Union. All of our revenues are currently generated in U.S. Dollars, and inflation in the European Union and/or the devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Euro may have the effect of increasing the cost in U.S. dollars of financing expenses. As a result, our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations may be adversely affected. Because exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations will have an impact on our profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations once we begin generating more significant revenues outside the U.S. We face significant threats from new entrants to our business, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. Barriers to entry in Internet service markets are low. Privately-backed and public companies could choose to enter our space and compete directly with us, or indirectly by offering substitute solutions. The result could be decreased demand or pricing for our services, longer sales cycles, or a requirement to make significant incremental investments in research and development to match these entrants’ new technologies. If any of these happens, it could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for our services is competitive and rapidly changing, and the barriers to entry are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales, limit customer attrition and maintain our prices. Our principal competitors include providers of email management services for small to medium size businesses such as AuthSmtp.com, SMTP2Go.com, SendGrid.com, JangoMail.com, SocketLabs.com, StrongMail.com, ExactTarget.com, CheetahMail.com, ConstantContact.com, iContact.com, MailChimp.com and Bronto.com, larger companies such as Amazon.com, as well as the in-house information technology capabilities of prospective customers. Competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our email marketing product to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. While we do not compete currently with vendors serving larger customers, we may face future competition from these providers if they determine that our target market presents an opportunity for them. We may also experience competition from Internet Service Providers, or ISPs, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses, such as Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. or Yahoo! Inc., possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive email marketing products, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. In addition, one or more of these ISPs or other businesses could decide to offer a competitive email marketing product at no cost or low cost in order to generate revenue as part of a larger product offering. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Our current and potential competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have and may be able to bundle an email marketing product with other products that have gained widespread market acceptance. These competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our products could substantially decline. 10 Our business is substantially dependent on continued demand for email marketing and any decrease in demand could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from organizations, including small and medium size businesses, associations and non-profits. As a result, widespread acceptance of communicating by email among small and medium size organizations is critical to our future growth and success. The overall market for email and related services is relatively new and still evolving, and small organizations have generally been slower than larger organizations to adopt email marketing as part of their marketing mix. There is no certainty regarding how or whether this market will develop, or whether it will experience any significant contractions. Our ability to attract and retain customers will depend in part on our ability to make email communications convenient, effective and affordable. If small and medium size organizations determine that email marketing and communication does not sufficiently benefit them, existing customers may cancel their accounts and potential customers may decide not to utilize our email services. In addition, many small and medium size organizations currently lack the technical expertise to effectively send large quantities of email. As technology advances, however, small and medium size organizations may establish the capability to manage their own email transmissions and therefore have no need for our email services. If the market for email services fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services may decline and our revenue would suffer. We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our customers located our website by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract a significant percentage of the customers we serve to our website. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our operating results, harming our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising fluctuates and may increase as demand for these channels grows, and any such increases could have negative effects on our financial results. Risks Related To Our Management If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our Chairman and other key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Semyon Dukach, our Chairman, is critical to the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Mr. Dukach or other key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We currently do not have written employment agreements with any of our key personnel, and we currently do not maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Dukach. Accordingly, the loss of the services of any of these persons would adversely affect our business. Our anticipated growth in our operations could place a significant strain on our management team and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our management team to effectively manage our growth in our operations. To do so, we believe we will need to continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The expected addition of new employees and the capital investments that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our anticipated growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our anticipated growth, our business operations could be adversely affected. 11 None of our officers and directors has in-depth accounting or financial reporting backgrounds, which increases the risk we may be unable to comply with all rules and regulations. Our ability to meet our ongoing reporting requirements on a timely basis will be dependent to a significant degree on advisors and consultants. Our officers and directors have no in-depth accounting or financial reporting backgrounds. As such, there is risk about our ability to comply with all financial reporting requirements accurately and on a timely basis. We do not have compensation or an audit committee, so stockholders will have to rely on the independent directors to perform these functions. We do not have an audit or compensation committee comprised of independent directors. These functions are performed by the independent members of our board of directors. Until we have an audit committee, there may less oversight of management decisions and activities and little ability for minority stockholders to challenge or reverse those activities and decisions, even if they are not in the best interests of minority stockholders. Our officers and directors own a controlling interest in our voting stock and investors will not have any voice in our management, which could result in decisions adverse to our general stockholders. Our officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately or have the right to vote approximately 90% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval including: · election of our board of directors; · removal of any of our directors; · amendment of our Articles of Incorporation or By-laws; and · adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us. As a result of their ownership and positions, our officers and directors collectively are able to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our officers may differ from the interests of the other stockholders, and they may influence decisions with which the other stockholders may not agree. Such decisions may be detrimental to our business plan and/or operations and they may cause the business to fail in which case you may lose your entire investment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or to prevent fraud. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for our Company to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our shares of common stock. A material weakness in internal controls may remain undetected for a longer period because of our Company's exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley. Our annual report does not include an attestation report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s registered public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management’s attestation in this annual report. As a result, a material weakness in our internal controls may remain undetected for a longer period. 12 Risks Related To Our Systems Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with their constituents. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities and, in the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with these and other blacklisting entities. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our customers’ use of our products to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications could damage our reputation, and we may face liability for unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our services. Our customers could use our email servers to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. Any such use of our products could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ promotion of their products and services through our email marketing product may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending such claims. If we are found liable for our customers’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. We do not currently have any general liability insurance to protect us in case of customer or other claims. We do not have any general liability insurance to cover any potential claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events and any of these events could result in an interruption of our ability to execute clients’ email campaigns. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our third-party data centers and hardware systems. The data centers and hardware systems are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If any of these events results in damage to our third-party data centers or systems, we may be unable to execute clients’ hosted online direct marketing campaigns until the damage is repaired, and may accordingly lose clients and revenues. In addition, subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may incur substantial costs in repairing any damage. System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We provide email delivery services to our clients and end-users through our proprietary technology and client management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. We are not aware of any loss of customers due to material service interruptions. However any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some clients to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Some factors that could lead to interruptions in customer service include: operator negligence; improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; physical and electronic break-ins; misappropriation; computer viruses and similar events; power loss; computer systems failures; and Internet and telecommunications failures. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. 13 A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause our network or systems to fail or cause our network to lose data. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. We may suddenly require additional bandwidth for which we have not adequately planned. We may secure an extremely large customer, group of customers, or experience demands for growth by an existing customer or set of customers that would require significant system resources. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate such capacity constraints. In addition, we may lose valuable data or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems, or in our customer support services, could reduce the attractiveness of our products and result in a loss of customers. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are co-located in third-party hosting facilities. None of the companies who host our systems guarantee that our customers’ access to our products will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on their ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our arrangements with third-party data centers are terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to their facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in access to our services, whether as a result of a third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause customers to cancel their accounts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have a disaster recovery system, which could lead to service interruptions and result in a loss of customers. We do not have any disaster recovery systems. In the event of a disaster in which our software or hardware are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our services. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our products. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our service, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our products, including hardware from such large vendors as International Business Machines Corporation, Dell Computer Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Inc. and EMC Corporation. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we lose the right to use any of this hardware or software or such hardware or software malfunctions, our customers could experience delays or be unable to access our services until we can obtain and integrate equivalent technology or repair the cause of the malfunctioning hardware or software. Any delays or failures associated with our services could upset our customers and harm our business. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our unpatented proprietary information, processes and know-how and our trade secrets, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected. We rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how and trade secrets. Although we try to protect this information in part by executing confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, such agreements may offer only limited protection and may be breached. Any unauthorized disclosure or dissemination of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how or our trade secrets, whether by breach of a confidentiality agreement or otherwise, may cause irreparable harm to our business, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, processes and know-how or our trade secrets are disclosed, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. Customizations to open source software code generally require developers to make their work available at no cost. Since we have created our software by developing extensions which plug into open source software without modifying the open source code, we do not believe there is a risk we could be required to offer our products or make our source code available. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our products, or to release our software code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The risks associated with intellectual property infringement claims are discussed immediately below. Because we have not filed for patent protection of our technologies, we face the risk of our technologies not being adequately protected. We have not applied for patent protection of our licensed technologies or processes with the US Patent and Trademark Office; if we fail to do so, we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, especially if the designs and materials used in our products are replicated by our competitors. Further, even if we file for patent protection, there is no assurance that it will be approved by the US Patent and Trademark Office. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. These claims, whether or not successful, could: · divert management’s attention; · result in costly and time-consuming litigation; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; · in the case of open source software-related claims, require us to release our software code under the terms of an open source license; or · require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our agreements with our channel partners require us to indemnify them for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a third party successfully asserts a claim that our products infringe its proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all and we may be required to pay significant monetary damages to such third party. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed, we may be exposed to liability and we may lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Our system stores our customers’ proprietary email distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity, which could severely damage our reputation. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and 15 our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states, including Massachusetts, have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection policy documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers, we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our products less attractive to many small organizations by negatively impacting our customer experience and significantly increasing our administrative costs related to customer payment processing. We do not have any general liability insurance to cover any potential claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. Risks Related To Our Industry The growth of the email marketing market depends on the continued growth and effectiveness of anti-spam products, which may be insufficient to enable us to offer our services at a profit. Adoption of email as a communications medium depends on the ability to prevent junk mail, or “spam,” from overwhelming a subscriber’s electronic mailbox. In recent years, many companies have evolved to address this issue and filter unwanted messages before they reach customers’ mailboxes. In response, spammers have become more sophisticated and have also begun using junk messages as a means for fraud. Email protection companies in turn have evolved to address this new threat. However, if their products fail to be effective against spam, adoption of email as a communications tool will decline, which would adversely affect the market for our services. Current economic conditions may negatively affect the business sector, which may cause our customers to terminate existing accounts with us or cause potential customers to fail to purchase our products, resulting in a decrease in our revenue and impairing our ability to operate profitably. Our email services are designed specifically for small and medium size organizations, including small and medium size businesses, associations and non-profits that frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than their larger, more established counterparts. Small organizations may choose to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our products and may experience higher failure rates. Moreover, if small organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on marketing, including email marketing, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our products, increase customer attrition and could cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we have limited experience operating our business during an economic downturn. Accordingly, we do not know if our current business model will continue to operate effectively during the current economic downturn. Furthermore, we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater risks we face in operating our business. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions, or a prolonged or recurring recession, will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating and financial results. U.S. federal legislation entitled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, particularly Utah and Michigan, which have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as adult or other harmful products. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or increase our operating costs. 16 Evolving regulations concerning data privacy may restrict our customers’ ability to solicit, collect, process and use data necessary to conduct email campaigns or to analyze the results or may increase their costs, which could harm our business. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing or use of consumers’ personal information. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit users to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals’ consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages or that record when individuals click through to an Internet address contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our customers’ ability to collect and use email addresses, page viewing data, and personal information, which may reduce demand for our products. They may also negatively impact our ability to effectively market our products. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to email communications. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. In addition, federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing and communications, which would adversely affect the viability of our services. Risks Related To Owning Our Securities We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute your ownership of our common stock. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to: · fund our operations; · respond to competitive pressures; · take advantage of strategic opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and · develop new products or enhancements to existing products. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or through business relationships, all of which may result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire competing or complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: · issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; · use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; · incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; · incur large charges or substantial liabilities; 17 · encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; · become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; and · encounter unfavorable reactions from investment banking market analysts who disapprove of our completed acquisitions. Our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to existing common stockholders and with the ability to affect adversely stockholder voting power and perpetuate their control over us. Our certificate of incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval, including large blocks of preferred stock. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders thereof the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock or other preferred stockholders and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock or existing preferred stock, if any. Preferred stock could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Accordingly, any future issuance of preferred stock or any rights to purchase preferred stock may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. The issuance of preferred stock also could decrease the amount of earnings attributable to, and assets available for distribution to, the holders of our common stock and could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock and preferred stock. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may limit your ability to buy and sell our shares. FINRA rules require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, depressing our share price. The market price of our shares would decline if our restricted stockholders sell a large number of shares. A total of 14,767,250 shares of restricted common stock have been issued to certain stockholders, which are restricted securities, as that term is defined in Rule 144 of the Rules and Regulations of the SEC promulgated under the Act. Under Rule 144, such shares can be publicly sold, subject to volume restrictions and certain restrictions on the manner of sale, commencing six months after their acquisition. Any sales of restricted shares held by these stockholders (after applicable restrictions expire) may have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock in any market that may develop, of which there can be no assurance. Our quarterly results may fluctuate and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: · our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements; · general economic conditions; · changes in our pricing policies; · our ability to expand our business; · the effectiveness of our personnel; · new product and service introductions; · technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; · the timing of additional investments in our hardware and software systems; · regulatory compliance costs; 18 · costs associated with future acquisitions of technologies and businesses; and · extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Some of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them may cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 