Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are the material risks we face. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, together with the “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information” and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents that we will file from time to time with the SEC. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We are an early-stage company with a history of incurring net losses. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $16.2 million and $7.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $65.2 million. We do not have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with the conduct of clinical trials, continue our product research and development programs, seek regulatory approvals, expand our sales and marketing capabilities, increase manufacturing of our products and comply with the requirements related to being a U.S. public company listed on the ASX and the Nasdaq Capital Market. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing products with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing and selling commercial products. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. We will need additional funding to continue operations, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Currently, we have no products available for commercial sale, and to date we have generated only limited product revenue from our feasibility study. We believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand will not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the first half of 2012. In addition, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an explanatory paragraph with regards to our ability to continue as a going concern in connection with its audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Our continued operations are dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding during 2012. However, additional funding may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and concern about our ability to continue as a going concern may place additional constraints on operations and make it more difficult for us to meet our obligations or adversely affect the terms of possible funding. If we raise additional funding through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may suffer dilution and our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future income may be limited. If we raise additional funding through debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability 12 Table of Contents to pay dividends or make acquisitions. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our product development programs and our commercialization efforts would be delayed, reduced or eliminated. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. To develop and increase internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we would have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. In developing these sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of risks, including: · we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force; · the cost of establishing, training and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force may be substantial; and · there are significant legal and regulatory risks in medical device marketing and sales that we have never faced, and any failure to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing and distribution could result in an enforcement action by the European countries, the FDA or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the product or could subject us to substantial liability. We plan to commercialize our products outside of the United States, which will expose us to risks associated with international operations. We plan to commercialize our products outside of the United States and expect to commence clinical trials in certain European countries in addition to the U.S. and Canada. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks, including: · costs of complying with varying regulatory requirements and potential, unexpected changes to those requirements; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · government-imposed pricing controls on sales of our products; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and · reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that our operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of various critical components for our C-Pulse System. The loss of any of these manufacturer or supplier relationships could delay future clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of our C-Pulse System. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our C-Pulse System and to supply us with all of the critical components of our C-Pulse System, including the balloon, driver, cuff and interface lead. We primarily purchase our components and products on a purchase order basis and do not “second source” any components of our product. If the supplier of the balloon used in our product was unable or unwilling to meet our demand for this component, or if the components or finished products provided by any of our suppliers do not meet quality and other specifications, clinical trials or commercialization of our product could be delayed and increase our expenses. Alternatively, if we have to switch to a replacement manufacturer or replacement supplier for any of our product components, we may face additional regulatory delays, and the manufacture and delivery of our C-Pulse System could be interrupted for an extended period of time and become significantly more expensive, which could delay completion of future clinical trials or commercialization of our C-Pulse System and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may be required to use different suppliers or components to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA. 13 Table of Contents If our manufacturers or our suppliers are unable to provide an adequate supply of our product following the start of commercialization, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order to produce our C-Pulse System in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet market demand, we will need our manufacturers to increase, or scale-up, the production process by a significant factor over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to scaling-up manufacturing capacity and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities that may require the investment of substantial additional funds by our manufacturers and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. If our manufacturers are unable to do so, we may not be able to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, if at all. We also may represent only a small portion of our supplier’s or manufacturer’s business and if they become capacity constrained they may choose to allocate their available resources to other customers that represent a larger portion of their business. We currently anticipate that we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of our C-Pulse System following commercialization. If we develop and obtain regulatory approval for our product and are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of our product, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to commercialize our products. We have expanded, and expect to continue to expand, our operations and grow our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage any further growth and to commercialize our products, we will be required to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and internal control systems in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources than we do, which may prevent us from achieving further market penetration or improving operating results. Competition in the medical device industry is intense. Our products will compete against current therapies, including pharmacological therapies, as well as products offered by public companies, such as Thoratec Corporation and HeartWare International, Inc., and several smaller specialized private companies, such as CircuLite, Inc. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do and have established reputations, as well as worldwide distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities that are larger and more established than ours. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We also face competition from other medical therapies which may focus on our target market as well as competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other devices that have not yet been developed. Competition from these companies could adversely affect our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: · financial resources; · product performance and design; · product safety; · sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; · manufacturing and assembly costs; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; · regulatory approvals; and · intellectual property protection. 14 Table of Contents The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of the members of our senior management. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. We may be sued for product liability, which could adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices carries a significant risk of product liability claims. Our products treat Class III and ambulatory Class IV heart failure for patients who typically have serious medical issues. As a result, our exposure to product liability claims may be heightened because the people who use our products have a high risk of suffering adverse outcomes, regardless of the safety or efficacy of our products. We may be held liable if any product we develop and commercialize causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or consumer use. The safety studies we must perform and the regulatory approvals required to commercialize our medical safety products will not protect us from any such liability. We carry product liability insurance with a $10 million aggregate limit. However, if there were to be product liability claims against us, our insurance may be insufficient to cover the expense of defending against such claims, or may be insufficient to pay or settle such claims. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance coverage for commercial sales of any of our approved products. If such insurance is insufficient to protect us, our results of operations will suffer. If any product liability claim is made against us, our reputation and future sales will be damaged, even if we have adequate insurance coverage. Even if a product liability claim against us is without merit or if we are not found liable for any damages, a product liability claim could result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, diversion of management’s attention from operation or our business, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, significant costs of related litigation, loss of revenue or the inability to commercialize our products under development. Risks Relating to Regulation We have no products approved for commercial sale, and our success will depend heavily on the success of our pivotal trial for our C-Pulse System. If we are unable to complete our pivotal trial, or experience significant delays in the trial, or if the results of the trial do not meet its safety and efficacy endpoints, our ability to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product and to generate revenues will be harmed. Upon completion of the six-month follow-up period for our feasibility trial, we submitted the trial’s test data to the FDA on November 29, 2011. We expect to submit an IDE application to the FDA in the first half of 2012 for approval to initiate our pivotal trial. Completion of the pivotal trial could be delayed or adverse events during the trial could cause us to modify the existing design, repeat or terminate the trial. If the trial is delayed, if it must be repeated or if it is terminated, our costs associated with the trial will increase, and it will take us longer to 15 Table of Contents obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize the product. Our pivotal trial also may be suspended or terminated at any time by regulatory authorities or by us. FDA scrutiny of IDE applications has intensified in recent years, increasing the risk of delay. Even if we commence and complete our pivotal clinical trial, it must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the C-Pulse System by meeting the trial’s endpoints before we can commercialize the C-Pulse System in the U.S. The inability to achieve the safety or efficacy endpoints in the pivotal trial could delay our timeline for obtaining regulatory approval to commercialize our product. In addition to successfully completing our pivotal trial, we will need to receive approval from regulatory agencies in each country in which we seek to sell our products. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval varies from country to country and approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another. In addition, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. We cannot assure you when, or if, we will be able to commence sales in any jurisdiction within or outside the United States. Any failure or significant delay in successfully completing our pivotal trial or obtaining regulatory approvals could harm our financial results and our prospects and cause us to seek additional funding. Even if we obtain foreign regulatory approvals, we will need to obtain FDA approval to commercialize our product in the United States, which will require us to receive FDA approval to conduct clinical trials in the United States and to complete those trials successfully. If we fail to obtain approval from the FDA, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the United States. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our C-Pulse System in the United States, which we believe is the largest potential market for our C-Pulse System. We can offer no assurance that our IDE application will be approved or that we will ever obtain FDA approval of the C-Pulse System or any future products. In order to obtain FDA approval for our C-Pulse System, we will be required to receive a PMA from the FDA. A PMA must be supported by pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy. A clinical trial will be required to support an application for a PMA, and we will be seeking FDA approval of our IDE application that will allow us to commence a clinical trial in the United States. We intend to commence our U.S. pivotal trial in the second half of 2012, but there can be no assurance that our U.S. pivotal trial will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if completed, we do not know if this trial will produce clinically meaningful results sufficient to show the safety and efficacy of our products so as to support an application for a PMA. The process of obtaining a PMA from the FDA for our C-Pulse System, or any future products or enhancements or modifications to any products, could: · take a significant period of time; · require the expenditure of substantial resources; · involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; · require changes to our products; and · result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. In addition, recent, widely publicized events concerning the safety of certain drug, food and medical device products have raised concerns among members of Congress, medical professionals and the public regarding the FDA’s handling of these events and its perceived lack of oversight over regulated products. The increased attention to safety and oversight issues could result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to approvals for devices such as ours, which could delay or prevent FDA approval of our C-Pulse System. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals from the FDA or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis. The failure to receive product approval by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to enroll and complete our planned United States pivotal trial for the C-Pulse System or other clinical trials, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of the C-Pulse System and impair our financial position. We intend to commence our U.S. pivotal trial in the second half of 2012. The trial is designed to be a randomized trial that includes approximately 300 patients and is expected to involve more than 30 sites. Conducting a clinical trial of this size is a complex and uncertain process. The commencement of our trial could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; · manufacturing sufficient quantities of our C-Pulse System; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct the trial at a prospective site; and · obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Once the trial has begun, the completion of the trial, and our other ongoing clinical trials, could be delayed, suspended or terminated for several reasons, including: · ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our preclinical results or clinical trial or requests for supplemental information with respect to our preclinical results or clinical trial results; · our failure or inability to conduct the clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; · sites currently participating in the trial may drop out of the trial, which may require us to engage new sites or petition the FDA for an expansion of the number of sites that are permitted to be involved in the trial; · patients may not remain in or complete clinical trials at the rates we expect; · patients may experience serious adverse events or side effects during the trial, which, whether or not related to our product, could cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; and · clinical investigators may not perform clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practice requirements. If our pivotal trial is delayed, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our pivotal trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Any of the foregoing could harm our financial results and our prospects and cause us to seek additional funding. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, and on other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. We have and plan to continue to rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, including our planned U.S. pivotal trial, and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials, to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols or comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our product. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical trial sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product. 17 Table of Contents Our manufacturers and suppliers might not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and prospects. Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our C-Pulse System and those manufacturers are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. A failure by our manufacturers to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could cause a significant delay in our ability to have our product manufactured and to complete our clinical trials, which would harm our financial results and our prospects. In addition, suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. We plan to operate in multiple regulatory environments that require costly and time consuming approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the C-Pulse System or any other product that we may develop, sales of our products in other jurisdictions will be subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time and cost required to obtain approvals from these countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for licensing may differ from those of the FDA. Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign, federal, state or local market laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. The C-Pulse System may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the C-Pulse System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: · the perceived effectiveness of the product; · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the strength of marketing and distribution support; and · sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our C-Pulse System, or any other product that we may develop, is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our product by third-party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our product or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affect the market for our product. The FDA has assigned the C-Pulse System to a Category B designation under IDE number G070096. By assigning the C-Pulse System a Category B designation, the FDA determined that the C-Pulse System is non-experimental/investigational. A non-experimental/investigational device refers to a device believed to be in Class I or Class II, or a device believed to be in Class III for which the incremental risk is the primary risk in question (that is, underlying questions of safety and effectiveness of that device type have been resolved), or it is known that the device type can be safe and effective because, for example, other manufacturers have obtained FDA approval for that device type. 18 Table of Contents Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored health care and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may adversely affect the demand for our products currently under development and limit our ability to sell the C-Pulse System or any future products on a profitable basis. In addition, third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for health care products and services. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any market or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to United States federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to, or have not fully complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval to market our C-Pulse System, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the, federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of medical device, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. The Affordable Care Act includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the U.S., and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Particularly, some states such as Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Vermont, impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. If we receive FDA clearance to market our product in the U.S., these laws could affect our promotional activities by limiting the kinds of interactions we could have with hospitals, physicians or 19 Table of Contents other potential purchasers or users of our products. Both the disclosure laws and gift bans will impose administrative and compliance burdens on us. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a United States reporting company and we have no experience as a U.S. reporting company. In connection with the effectiveness of our registration statement on Form 10, as of February 14, 2012, we became subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Although we have been listed on the ASX for several years and have been required to file financial information and make certain other filings with the ASX, our status as a U.S. reporting company under the Exchange Act will cause us to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we have not previously incurred, including costs related to compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. As of January 27, 2012, we owned 11 issued patents in the United States and 10 patent applications in the United States, as well as 18 issued patents and 19 patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. We estimate that the U.S. patents expire between June 9, 2020 and October 28, 2024. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. Intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving medical device patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies used in our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: · stop clinical trials or delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit; 20 Table of Contents · attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or · redesign those products that use the relevant technology. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Risk Factors Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock An active trading market for our shares of common stock in the United States may not develop and the trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on February 16, 2012. Our common stock has been listed on the ASX in the form of CDIs since 2004 and has experienced limited trading volume. The reported average daily trading volume in our common stock on the ASX (in the form of CDIs) for the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, was approximately 1,261 shares. All of our shares of common stock that we have sold have been sold in reliance on exemptions from registration under the Securities Act and must be resold pursuant to exemptions from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state laws or must be registered for resale under the Securities Act and applicable state laws. We are not obligated to register any of our stockholders shares under the Securities Act or otherwise. Although we have listed shares of common stock on Nasdaq Capital Market and intend to file with the SEC registration statements on Form S-8 covering approximately 1 million shares of our common stock issuable under our equity plans, there can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our shares will develop in the United States. If an active trading market does not develop in the United States, the market price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock in the form of CDIs has been traded on the ASX in the form of CDIs since 2004. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, our closing per CDI price ranged from A$6.00 to A$12.60 for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed, ongoing or future clinical trials; · quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; · introduction of new products; · acquisition or loss of significant manufacturers, distributors or suppliers; · business acquisitions or divestitures; · changes in third-party reimbursement practices; · fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and 21 Table of Contents · fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Our directors and executive officers hold substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of March 19, 2012, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned, in the aggregate (including options or warrants exercisable currently or within 60 days of March 19, 2012), approximately 51.8% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, if acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders and CDI holders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock and CDIs as part of a sale of our company and may affect the market price of our common stock and CDIs. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and CDIs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If there are substantial sales of shares of our common stock, our share price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or CDIs if the public market, should one develop, perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large number of shares or CDIs the price at which our common stock or CDIs trade could decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by stockholders in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, are likely to adversely affect the market price of our common stock and CDIs. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our products and business. Accordingly, our stockholders and CDI holders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock and CDIs appreciate. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, between the price of our CDIs on the ASX and the price of our shares available for sale in the U.S., whether such sales would take place on a U.S. securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or otherwise. Such arbitrage activities could cause our share price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. In connection with becoming a company required to file reports with the SEC, we will be required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remediating any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the 22 Table of Contents measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our common stock and CDIs may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) any other action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our board of directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 66 2/3% majority stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or adopt new bylaws; providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the directors will be divided into three classes and the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our board of directors; and providing that none of our directors may be removed without cause. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our board of directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. It may be difficult to effect service of United States process and enforce United States legal process against our directors. Five of our eight directors reside outside of the United States, principally in the Commonwealth of Australia. A substantial portion of the assets of our directors also are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons in order to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against these persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Australia, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 