D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our operations are affected by the economic conditions of the overall automotive market, both in the PRC and in other countries, which in turn are subject to the conditions of the overall economic environment, government policies and other factors beyond our control. As our products, steel wheels, are components of commercial vehicles, our sales are largely dependent on the demand for and usage of such vehicles in the overall automotive market, both in the PRC and in other countries where our products are sold. We sell steel wheels both through a network of distributors to aftermarket end-users as replacements for worn out or lower quality wheels, and directly to OEMs such as automotive manufacturers for use on their commercial vehicles. The demand from both of these types of customers depends on the overall demand for and usage of commercial vehicles, which in turn depends on a number of factors including overall economic conditions, vehicle sales and availability and quality of transportation networks in the markets where we sell and distribute our products. All of these factors are beyond our control. As the PRC economy developed, domestic commercial vehicle sales had enjoyed a relatively long period of growth, which partially drove the domestic sales of our products. Domestic commercial vehicle sales decreased, however, since 2011 primarily due to the prolonged slowdown in the global economy and PRC government policies including control over capital investment and cancellation of the government stimulus measures implemented to assist the automotive industry in 2009 and 2010. As a result, the rate of growth of our PRC aftermarket and OEM sales decreased starting from 2011 and more significantly in 2012. In 2013, our PRC aftermarket and OEM sales, however, increased slightly compared to 2012, primarily due to the gradual recovery of the global economy as well as an increase in domestic commercial vehicle sales in 2013 in anticipation of the promulgation of a policy that would substantially increase the prices of automotives. In the second half of 2014, a slowdown in PRC economy resulted in a reduction of construction and infrastructure related activities, which led to a sluggish demand in our aftermarket segment. In the second half of 2014, our OEM sales also decreased as truck manufacturers cut back on new vehicle production in light of the looming switch from National III to National IV emission standard and the need to decrease inventory of current model of National III compliance vehicles prior to launching National IV compliance vehicles. 5 Table of Contents Outside the PRC, our international sales have been affected by the recent global financial crisis which began in the second half of 2008, as some of the countries to which we export our products experienced an economic slowdown and the demand in the international automotive market reduced significantly between 2008 and 2009. Despite the ongoing economic difficulties in various markets, including India, our international sales improved from 2011 to 2012 as a result of our enhanced sales and marketing efforts in various countries in Asia. However, notwithstanding the growth of our sales in various countries in Asia, our international sales decreased from 2012 to 2013, primarily due to an increase in the anti-dumping duties imposed by the Indian government in India, which has resulted in a substantial decrease in our sales to the Indian market. From 2013 to 2014, the depreciation of Indian rupee also adversely affected the Indian economy. As a result, we nearly ceased our sales to the Indian market. On the other hand, we had also gained new headway in the SouthEast Asian market, particularly with respect to Thailand. In addition, the implementation, renewal, change or cancellation of any government policies in the future, such as economic stimulus or tightening measures or currency controls, in the PRC or in any of the international markets where our products are sold, may significantly affect our business. If the demand for our steel wheels declines as a result of changes of economic conditions in the automotive industry or does not grow at the pace we anticipate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. We are reliant on our major customers and currently do not have multi-year contracts with almost all such customers. We rely on our major customers. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, the aggregate sales to our five largest customers (including the PRC aftermarket, PRC OEMs and international sales) accounted for 19.0%, 18.6% and 18.8% of our revenue, respectively. For example, Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group, our largest customer worldwide in 2012,2013 and 2014 accounted for 5.0%, 5.3% and 5.1% of our revenue for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We offer our products to end-users in the aftermarket in the PRC through our nationwide distribution network. As of December 31, 2014, such network consisted of 4,374 distributors in the PRC, including 23 tier-one distributors, 2,857 exclusive tier-two distributors and 1,494 non-exclusive tier-two distributors, throughout the PRC. We also sell our products directly to OEMs in the PRC. In addition, we sell our products outside the PRC to both international distributors in the aftermarket and directly to international OEMs, primarily in Thailand and more than 29 other countries worldwide. Although we generally have longstanding business relationships with our major customers, we do not have multi-year contracts with almost all such customers. For our aftermarket customers in the PRC, we sign distribution agreements with our tier-one distributors and three-party distribution agreements with our tier-one distributors and exclusive tier-two distributors. These agreements are automatically renewed every year unless terminated by the parties. We do not, however, enter into any contracts with our non-exclusive tier-two distributors to which the tier-one distributors resell our products. For our OEM customers in the PRC, we typically sign framework agreements that are renewable every year upon mutual agreement. Under these framework agreements, the volume of products to be sold in any given period is not fixed and the sale price is fixed but is periodically revised based on the market price of steel and mutual agreement between the parties. For our ten largest international customers, we enter into strategic cooperation agreements which are renewable every three years upon mutual agreement unless terminated by the parties and pursuant to which such customers place orders from time to time that specify the actual price and amount of purchases. Our remaining international customers purchase our products pursuant to standalone purchase orders. We cannot assure you that our future sales to our major customers will equal or exceed our previous sales or will continue to exist at all, because we have no multi-year contracts with such customers guaranteeing minimum sales volumes or prices for future years. As the existing agreements with our customers expire, we may be unable to renew these agreements with our desired customers on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to maintain, renew or develop business relationships with current or future distributors, and our tier-one distributors may be unable to maintain, renew or develop their relationships with tier-two distributors, and any of such factors could lead to a reduction of our revenue or our revenue growth. A significant portion of our revenue comes from distributors, on which we exclusively rely to reach the aftermarket in the PRC. We have 23 tier-one distributors in the PRC, with whom we have direct contractual relationships. In turn, these tier-one distributors resell our products to tier-two distributors. Our five largest tier-one distributors accounted for 16.7%, 16.6% and 16.7% of our revenue in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We believe that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales to our tier-one distributors in the PRC. As described in the preceding risk factor, we cannot assure you that our business relationships with any of our existing distributors will continue or that any such distributor will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or at the same prices as in prior years. Furthermore, we expect that we will continue to rely on engaging distributors and expanding volume with existing distributors for our revenue growth. However, competition for distributors in our industry is intense. We compete for distributors with other companies that may have greater financial resources or name recognition in certain markets, broader product selection and more favorable pricing than us. If we lose one or more distributors and are unable to replace them at similar terms in a timely manner or if we fail to develop relationships with new distributors, we may be unable to effectively market and sell our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 6 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot be certain that our tier-one distributors will be able to maintain their relationships with tier-two distributors or that such tier-two distributors will be able to effectively sell our products to the ultimate aftermarket end-users. Our tier-one distributors are not the ultimate end-users of our products, and their orders to us depend on downstream sales to tier-two distributors and such distributors’ sales to ultimate end-users. Any failure by our tier-one distributors to maintain their relationships with tier-two distributors or by the tier-two distributors to effectively sell our products to end-users could also materially and adversely affect us. Failure to effectively manage our network of distributors or any non-compliance by them under our distribution agreements could negatively affect our ability to sell our products or subject us to liability. We generally select our tier-one distributors based on business reputation, size, industry and sales experience, quality of the management team and prior sales performance. Under our contractual arrangements, our tier-one distributors may not distribute any other commercial vehicle wheel manufacturer’s products, and are required to sell our products at our suggested prices and in designated sales regions. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive tier-two distributors, both of which purchase our products from our tier-one distributors. Each of our exclusive tier-two distributors is operated by third parties, exclusively sells our products and follows our branding and marketing requirements, pursuant to annually renewable three-party distribution agreements that such exclusive tier-two distributors enter into with us and the relevant tier-one distributor in the designated sales region. Our non-exclusive tier-two distributors sell our products along with products from our competitors. Our sales and marketing team manages and supports the activities of our tier-one distributors and exclusive tier-two distributors to ensure that they comply with our sales guidelines, policies and procedures. Despite our contractual arrangements and the efforts of our sales and marketing team, we cannot assure you that our tier-one distributors and exclusive tier-two distributors will fully comply with their contractual obligations to us. For example, they may: • fail to meet sales targets for our products in accordance with relevant agreements; • sell our products outside their designated regions, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of our other distributors; • fail to maintain requisite licenses or otherwise comply with regulatory requirements when selling our products; • sell products that compete with ours; or • violate applicable laws, including the anti-corruption laws of the PRC, the United States or other countries, during the course of the marketing and sale of our products. Furthermore, we generally have no direct contractual relations with our non-exclusive tier-two distributors, all of which are independent from us. Instead, our tier-one distributors directly contract with non-exclusive tier-two distributors to implement certain sales policies and restrictions reflected in the contracts between tier-one distributors and us. We rely on tier-one distributors to enforce these arrangements with non-exclusive tier-two distributors, and we cannot assure you that our tier-one distributors can be successful in doing so. As a result, we have limited ability to manage the activities of our non-exclusive tier-two distributors, and we may not be able to timely mitigate or correct any non-compliance by such distributors with our sales policies and restrictions. If our distributors do not comply with our agreements with them or if they violate applicable laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales and marketing of our products, then our brand and reputation may be harmed or our sales activities may be disrupted, and we could also be liable for such actions by our distributors. Therefore, if we are unable to effectively manage our network of distributors, our brand, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in expanding our international sales or operations due to various factors, including political or economic issues such as trade barriers. Our products are mainly sold in the PRC, but international sales to Thailand and more than 29 other countries worldwide, both to international distributors and OEMs, are significant, accounting for 16.2%, 14.7% and 15.5% of our revenue in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. As a result, our operations and financial performance are affected by the social, economic, political and regulatory conditions in these countries and countries where we may operate or where our products may be sold in the future. Furthermore, regulations and policies affecting trade and bilateral relations between the PRC and the countries and regions to which we export our products can adversely affect our international sales in those countries and regions. We intend to expand our international sales, particularly sales in South Eastern Asia. However, we may not be successful in expanding our international sales or operations or benefiting from any such expansion, due to the following factors: • fluctuations in currency foreign exchange rates; • inability to execute or manage international expansion; 7 Table of Contents • instability of local political and economic conditions; • difficulties caused by cultural or language differences; • inability to timely attract or train sufficient experienced staff and skilled workers, including sales staff knowledgeable in each international market; • increasing costs and expenses associated with maintaining marketing and sales efforts or establishing other operations outside the PRC; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements of various international markets, including but not limited to any permits, licenses, registrations or certificates that may be required in those markets; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses (including anti-dumping duties as discussed below), which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries and regions. For example, due to the ongoing economic difficulties in India including the instability of local economic conditions and fluctuation in the value of the Indian Rupee, we have suspended our plan to establish a steel wheel manufacturing facility in India for the time being, and we intend to resume such plan when the economic conditions in India improve. In addition, we have faced trade barriers in our international markets. For example, the Indian government initiated proceedings in 2006 to impose anti-dumping duties on Indian companies for importing steel wheel products from the PRC primarily in an attempt to protect local Indian steel wheel manufacturers, which generally do not offer steel wheels at the prices that we and our PRC competitors are able to offer in India. We participated in the relevant investigation and proceedings initiated by the Indian government, which ended in 2007. As a result of our efforts, Indian importers are subject to a lower import tax rate when importing from us compared to some of our PRC competitors. The Indian government initiated similar proceedings in 2012 and increased the anti-dumping duties from 14,710 Indian Rupee per ton to 30,700 Indian Rupee per ton starting from 2013, which has resulted in a substantial decrease in our sales to the Indian market. Combined with a recessive economy that is brought on in part by the depreciation of Indian rupee, we nearly ceased our sales to the Indian market by 2014. We and our products may from time to time be subject to further import taxes or anti-dumping duties in India and other countries where our products are sold, which could have an adverse impact on the prices and sales of our products in those countries. In addition, responding to any initiation of protection measures against us or our products in our international markets may significantly divert the resources and attention of our management. If we are unable to successfully expand our international sales or operations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent potential resales or transfers of our products to countries, governments, entities, or persons targeted by United States economic sanctions, especially when we sell our products to independent non-U.S. distributors over which we have limited control. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers certain laws and regulations, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, that restrict U.S. persons and, under limited circumstances, foreign entities, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals that are the subject of U.S. economic sanctions, or Sanctions Targets. U.S. persons are also generally prohibited from facilitating such activities or transactions engaged in by non-U.S. persons. We sell a portion of our products in international markets through independent non-U.S. distributors that are responsible for interacting with the end-users of our products. Historically, some of our independent non-U.S. distributors were located in countries that were subject to U.S. economic sanctions, namely, Burma, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon and Syria. In 2010, our aggregate sales to the non-U.S. distributors in those sanctioned countries accounted for less than 2.0% of our revenue in that year. We ceased selling to such non-U.S. distributors in those sanctioned countries in October 2010. We believe that, under their current terms, U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws are not applicable to our historical activities with respect to the sanctioned countries named above. Nonetheless, we have decided not to engage in any sales to non-U.S. distributors located in any countries that are subject to U.S. economic sanctions and have implemented measures to prevent any future sales of our products to any Sanctions Targets. Due to our limited control over our independent non-U.S. distributors, however, we may be unable to prevent all potential resales or transfers of our products to Sanctions Targets. We do not always know the end-users to whom our distributors resell our products, and, although we have required our distributors to covenant with us not to resell our products to Sanctions Targets, one or more of our distributors may breach that covenant. If our activities are found to violate applicable sanctions or other trade controls, our reputation could be adversely affected, some of our U.S. investors might be required to sell their interests in our company under the laws of certain U.S. states or under internal investment policies or might decide for reputational reasons to sell such interests, and some U.S. institutional investors might forgo the purchase of our ADSs, all of which could materially and adversely affect the value of our ADSs and your investment in us. 8 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers for steel, our key raw material, and certain components required for our production. Our principal raw material is steel which accounts for substantially all of our current total raw material requirements. We source steel from a handful of key suppliers in the PRC, with whom we typically enter into annual supply agreements. In addition, we purchase from a limited number of suppliers a majority of our locking rings, a key component used in our production of tubed steel wheels. We have optimized our manufacturing process by procuring steel that meets our specifications, and we purchase such steel from a handful of established key suppliers. Although there are alternative steel suppliers in the market, any disruption in steel from our key suppliers may disrupt our manufacturing operations until we can secure customized steel from other suppliers at similar pricing and other terms in a timely manner. We cannot assure you we could always be able to secure customized steels from alternative suppliers in a timely manner at commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our annual agreements with the relevant suppliers will be renewed on a timely basis, on the same terms as we have previously received or at all. We do not hedge or otherwise fix supply prices in advance by contract, although we typically increase our inventory of steel when prices decline and limit our purchases to the extent possible when steel prices increase. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to purchase sufficient quantities of the appropriate types of steel for our various products at the prices we have historically paid. Similarly, we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies of locking rings at or lower than the prices we have historically paid. If any of the above events occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the volatile prices and availability of raw materials and utilities. The primary raw material for our production is steel, which is a commodity with frequently fluctuating prices. In addition to steel, utilities, particularly electricity, are another significant input in our manufacturing process. The prices of raw materials and utilities may fluctuate due to intervening factors such as global demand and supply conditions and changes in economic conditions. Any shortages or interruptions in the supply of raw materials or utilities may result in an increase in raw material or utility prices, and we may not be able to pass on these increases in prices to our customers or we may be unable to find alternative sources of such raw materials or utilities at competitive prices. We cannot assure you that such shortages or interruptions will not occur in the future. Alternatively, if the prices of raw materials decrease significantly, especially in the case of steel, which we typically increase our purchases when prices decline, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products to remain competitive. This may require us to write down the value of inventory on hand that we purchased prior to such decrease in prices. If any of these events occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. As we operate in a highly competitive industry, we currently face competition from other manufacturers of steel and aluminum wheels in the PRC. In the PRC market, we primarily compete with companies such as Shandong Xingmin Wheel, Dongfeng Motor Wheel, Changchun FAWAY Automobile Components, Xiamen Sunrise Wheel and Alcoa Inc. In the international market, we primarily compete with various local wheel manufacturers at each of our sales region. Our success depends, among other things, on our ability to maintain and improve our products and production capabilities to meet the needs of our existing and new customers. In particular, there is intense competition for a limited number of OEM customers. If our products do not meet the requirements of our existing and new customers, if our competitors offer better products or more competitive prices for similar products, or if our products otherwise fail to compete successfully in the industry, our financial performance may be adversely affected. In addition, there is increasing consolidation within the commercial vehicle wheel industry in the PRC. If we fail to maintain or increase our market share, this consolidation in our industry could cause our competitors to develop advantages over us in their available capital, per-unit cost in manufacturing operations, purchasing power with suppliers, pricing power with customers, scale of distribution network, brand recognition and other factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There are changing demands within the commercial vehicle wheel market, involving shifts in demand from certain types of wheels to others, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to meet such changing market demands. The market for commercial vehicle wheels is constantly evolving, with demand for different types of wheels shifting over time. For example, it is anticipated that tubeless steel wheels will gradually displace demand for tubed steel wheels and that there will be a shift from steel wheels to aluminum wheels. These particular trends are driven by a desire for wheels that provide greater safety and/or fuel efficiency. Successfully meeting the changing market demands will be critical for us to remain competitive in the industry. 9 Table of Contents These and other market changes may increase or decrease demand for certain of our existing and planned products. We anticipate incurring significant costs to appropriately accommodate such changing market trends. For example, we have increased the weight of tubeless steel wheel production as a proportion of our overall production in recent years and are in the process of ramping up a new aluminum wheel manufacturing facility in the PRC. We have devoted significant financial and other resources to these activities and expect to incur additional costs in the future. Furthermore, we may not be successful in keeping up with or foreseeing the changing demands in the market, and we may not otherwise realize the full benefit of our investments made in anticipation of any particular market trend. Although we are actively engaging in research and development activities to keep up with changing market demands, we cannot assure you that we will successfully meet future market demands. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our product development efforts may not result in successful new products that meet changing market demands. In particular, our plans to launch new aluminum wheel products may not be successful. In order to maintain and enhance our leading competitive position and to continue to grow our business, we work to further optimize our manufacturing processes and to design, develop and market new products and improved versions of our existing products to meet changing market demands. In particular, we are conducting research and development for the production of aluminum wheels for use in commercial vehicles in anticipation of changing market demands. Accordingly, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to develop new and enhanced steel wheels and as we further enhance our research and development for aluminum wheels. However, as a percentage of revenue, we expect our research and development expenses to remain relatively stable for the foreseeable future. Further, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and the success of our new products will depend on a number of factors, including product quality, competition, customer acceptance, price, general market conditions, government policies, our ability to reflect customer feedback into our new products, our ability to accurately assess technological trends and customer needs and the strength of our marketing and distribution capabilities. We have limited experience in designing and producing aluminum wheels on a commercial scale. Entering the aluminum wheel market may be a challenge for us, since the production of aluminum wheels differs from that of our existing steel wheel products. For example, aluminum wheels require certain manufacturing equipment and techniques different from those used for steel wheels. Therefore, we may not be successful in the aluminum wheel market. Our competitors may be able to introduce aluminum wheels to markets faster than us, adopt more efficient manufacturing techniques or develop products that are more effective or commercially attractive than ours. If we fail to succeed in the aluminum wheel market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may not successfully expand or manage our production capacity. Our future success depends on, among other things, our ability to maintain optimal production capacity and to maximize the utilization rate of our production capacity. If we fail to achieve either, we may be unable to benefit from economies of scale to decrease our cost per wheel, apply capital efficiently, improve our profitability, maintain our leading competitive position in the commercial vehicle wheel industry or meet customer needs. We have undergone a series of expansions to our existing manufacturing facilities in recent years, including in 2010, 2011 and the first half of 2012. While we temporarily suspended such expansion in the second half of 2012 and continued to suspend such expansion in 2013 primarily due to a decrease in our PRC aftermarket and OEM sales, we intend to resume our expansion plan and further steadily expand our manufacturing facilities in the long-term depending on market conditions. In addition, we are in the process of establishing a new aluminum wheel manufacturing facility, for which we purchased the principal equipment and trained a number of technicians during 2014, and expect to begin commercial production in the third quarter of 2015. Although we have significantly expanded our production capacity and are planning to further steadily expand our manufacturing facilities in the long-term depending on market conditions, it is possible that demand for our products may exceed our production capacity in future periods, in which case we may be required to further expand our production capacity to maintain or increase our market share. However, such future expansion is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase additional production equipment or to build additional factories, which we may be unable to obtain on commercially viable terms or at all; • cost overruns and delays as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increased costs associated with equipment procurement; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • failures to obtain adequate land or buildings that are suitable for our manufacturing facilities and within geographic proximity to regions with demand for our products or with adequate shipping facilities, utilities and labor pools; • production inefficiency or inadequate quality control from new or expanded manufacturing facilities; • inability to quickly implement an adequate set of financial controls to track the increased scale of our business; 10 Table of Contents • inability to attract, retain or appropriately train and manage new personnel; and • delays in commencing operations at our new or expanded facilities. After any expansion of production capacity, the utilization rate of our expanded production capacity is subject to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: inability to increase our sales volume due to market conditions, unanticipated disruptions in our operations which may impact our ability to manufacture products or make timely deliveries to our customers, and inadequate access to raw materials, labor or other inputs required for our manufacturing operations. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to adequately utilize our production capacity at any given time. If we fail to appropriately expand and manage our production capacity, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We may seek to expand through acquisitions, but we may be unsuccessful in our ability to manage such acquisitions and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. To enhance our growth, we may acquire businesses, manufacturing facilities, technologies or know-how that we believe would benefit us in terms of product development, manufacturing or distribution. As we have limited experience with acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating the acquired companies, technologies, personnel or products into our existing business, particularly integrating different quality management, customer relationship management and other business functions; • delays or failures in realizing the benefits from any acquired company, products or know-how, which could result from, for example, delays in governmental approvals of products developed by acquired businesses; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; or • difficulties in retaining key employees of any acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. If we acquire businesses that operate outside the PRC or offer products that are different from our existing products, these risks may increase because of our limited experience in operating such businesses. An acquisition could also materially impair our results of operations by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquired intangible assets. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and regulatory compliance, and product liabilities in acquired businesses which we did not uncover prior to such acquisition. As a consequence, we may become subject to penalties, lawsuits or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses, product or technologies or unexpected penalties, lawsuits or liabilities in connection with acquired businesses, product or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive management team and other key personnel, and losing their services would severely disrupt our business and materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Our future success depends substantially on the continuing services of our senior management team, in particular, Mr. Jianhui Lai, our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder. Mr. Lai has over 20 years of experience in the commercial vehicle wheel industry, particularly in managing vehicle wheel businesses. Mr. Lai’s experience and efforts have been instrumental in the development of our company. If Mr. Lai or any of our other senior executives or key personnel are unable or unwilling to remain with our company, we may not be able to replace them with appropriate candidates, our business may be disrupted and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man insurance for members of our management team or any of our other key personnel. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management team or key personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers and trade secrets. While we generally attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into non-disclosure/confidentiality and non-competition agreements with our executive officers as well as key personnel who have access to sensitive and confidential information, we cannot assure you that, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, these agreements could be enforced in the PRC. Please refer to “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us.” 11 Table of Contents Our business depends on our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be adversely disrupted if we fail to continue to attract, train and retain our highly qualified technical personnel. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technical experts, research and development personnel, engineers, post-sales services personnel and sales and marketing personnel, particularly those with expertise and experience in the automotive or automotive component industry. There is substantial competition for those professionals, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continuously attract or retain them. If we are unable to attract and retain valuable employees, to keep pace with our expected growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our labor costs may increase in the PRC. Labor is a key component of our manufacturing operations in the PRC. In addition to the labor contract law, discussed below in “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC—The enforcement of the PRC labor contract law and its implementation rules and increase in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability,” other factors may increase our costs of labor in the PRC. As the PRC economy continues to develop, its labor force is becoming more educated and is undergoing other demographic changes. As a result, the number of available workers for our manufacturing operations may decrease or such workers may demand higher wages. In addition, increases in the size or number of our competitors or other manufacturing businesses may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain workers for our own manufacturing operations. Our total staff costs in 2012, 2013 and 2014 were RMB285.5 million, RMB325.3 million and RMB332.9 million (US$53.7 million), which represented 7.6%, 8.6% and 10.0% of our revenue in each of those years, respectively. A significant increase in labor costs for our operations in the PRC could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to credit risks of our customers, and our trade receivables are relatively large. Our customers may default in their payments to us from time to time. We conduct regular reviews of our credit exposure to our customers. Credit risk arises from events and circumstances beyond our control or events which are difficult to anticipate or detect, such as an economic downturn or deterioration in the financial position of our customers. For our PRC aftermarket sales, our tier-one distributors are required to provide us a credit deposit typically equal to approximately one-month of indicative annual purchase amount. Depending on the actual sales amount, we typically provide our tier-one distributors a credit term of 45 to 55 days from the delivery of our products. We typically provide our OEM customers in the PRC a credit term of 55 to 75 days from the delivery of our products, depending on the sales amount and, in 2014, we extended credit terms to 90 days to allevitae the stress of some of our OEM customers. For international sales, we typically provide our customers a credit term of 30 days from delivery of our products. For certain new international customers, we require payment of the entire purchase price at the time of purchase. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we had trade receivables of RMB530.1 million, RMB666.8 million and RMB577.1 million (US$93.0 million), respectively, which represented 14.2%, 17.5% and 17.3% of our revenue in each of those years, respectively. If our customers fail to timely pay us, require us to extend credit to them beyond our customary payment periods, or otherwise default on their payments in an amount in excess of any previously paid deposit, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our cash flow requirements and we would need to make provisions for doubtful debts or incur bad debt write-offs, which may adversely affect our financial performance. Disputes which arise due to default in payment by customers may also incur time and substantial costs in claiming for such payments and thus affect our liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results may fluctuate considerably from quarter to quarter, and these fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • seasonal or periodic fluctuations in our customers’ and end-users’ businesses, which could cause variability or unpredictability in the volume and timing of our customers’ purchase orders; • price fluctuations and shortages of raw materials that we purchase from suppliers; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our internal production capacity to meet customer demand and the timeliness and success of these expansion efforts; • foreign currency fluctuations, particularly fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Renminbi, U.S. dollar and Euro; • our success in maintaining, establishing and expanding customer relationships; 12 Table of Contents • changes in our manufacturing costs, selling prices and the relative sales mix of our products; • timing of new product or technology developments, announcements, or introductions by us or our competitors and other developments in our competitive environment; • changes in the regulatory environment of our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. Historically, our revenues have typically been higher in the second and fourth quarters and lower in the first and third quarters of each year. We cannot be certain if or how our results of operations will be affected by seasonal trends in future periods. In addition, if our revenue in a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses, in particular our advertising and promotion expenses, for that quarter by a corresponding amount. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. You should not rely on our results from any quarter as an indication of future performance. Quarterly variations in our operations could result in significant volatility in the market for our ADSs, and the market price for our ADSs might fall below the initial public offering price. The occurrence of any of the risks described above could result in harm to our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, especially if it continues for a period of time or is not mitigated in subsequent periods. Our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property are important assets for our business, and if we are unable to protect them, or if other parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have developed a large portfolio of intellectual property rights in the PRC to protect the technologies, inventions and improvements significant to our business, and we believe that this is important for us to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. As of December 31, 2014, we owned a total of 91 patents in the PRC. In addition, we had registered 539 trademarks with China’s Trademark Office as of December 31, 2014, and are currently in the process of applying for 29 additional trademarks in the PRC. We also have a number of trademarks and trademark applications in a number of the countries to which we export our products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce protection for patents, trademarks and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that we obtain valid and enforceable intellectual property rights with respect to them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our intellectual property rights is uncertain because legal means may only provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our exclusive proprietary interest or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. We rely primarily on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our employees and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We have entered into agreements with our executive officers and employees involved in technology and research and development, under which intellectual property during most of their employment belongs to us, and they waive all relevant rights or claims to such intellectual property. Generally, our executive officers and employees involved in technology and research and development are also bound by a confidentiality obligation, and have agreed to disclose and assign to us inventions conceived by them during their term of employment. While we actively take steps to protect our intellectual property rights, such steps may not be adequate to prevent the infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property. The counterparties to our confidentiality agreements may not follow such agreements, or our confidentiality agreements may not be enforceable or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property could harm our business and leading market position. We have sold, and expect to continue to sell, a significant portion of our products outside the PRC, where we currently have no patent protection. In these jurisdictions, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or processes, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies or processes, and obtain patents for such intellectual properties, including in countries in which we sell our products, which could allow those patent holders to prevent us from selling any of our products that infringe those foreign patents in those countries. Our competitors are also developing and seeking patent protection for technologies in connection with the manufacturing of steel wheels. We expect our competitors to continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. There may be patents issued or pending held by others that cover significant parts of our technology or business methods. Disputes over rights to these technologies may arise in the future. We cannot be certain that our products do not or will not infringe valid patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. As a result, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. If we are not able to protect our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property, we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or producing competing products using the relevant technologies or processes. Similarly, if other parties assert claims that we are infringing their intellectual property, they may be able to prevent us from using certain technologies or processes or from producing certain types of products. Any of these situations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 13 Table of Contents Our future capital needs are uncertain, and we may not be successful in raising sufficient funds in the future, particularly to fund our expansion activities. Our future capital needs are uncertain because our expenditures may exceed our current expectations. This could occur for a number of reasons, including, for example, if we devote a significant amount of financial resources to expansion of production capacity or to the research and development of new products or manufacturing techniques that we believe to have significant commercial potential. Our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • market conditions for capital-raising activities by PRC-based companies, such as investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of PRC-based auto component manufacturers; • the regulatory environment, including regulation of our industry and PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings; • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds that are necessary for our operations on terms favorable to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. If we raise additional funds, we may dilute existing shareholders or increase our debt, which in turn could restrict our operations or ability to pay dividends. If our revenue is not sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements or if we have future liquidity needs or other business reasons, we may need (or we may elect) to sell additional equity or debt securities or borrow funds to raise capital. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and a reduction in the price of our ADSs. The incurrence of additional debt would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industrial conditions, be limited in our ability to pursue our expansion plans, be required to allocate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to repay our debts, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the market environment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs or otherwise harm our reputation. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs or otherwise harm our reputation. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may also need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements going forward. Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations. Any actual or alleged violation of these regulations could result in regulatory actions, fines and other penalties, including suspending production or ceasing operations, civil or criminal claims resulting in potentially significant monetary damages, adverse publicity, and other negative consequences. Our production process primarily generates and discharges waste water, waste gas, noises and solid wastes, and we are required to comply with certain national and local environmental, health and safety regulations. We believe that we have instituted environmental, health and safety procedures and measures that comply with the relevant regulations in the PRC in all material respects. We also sell certain of our solid wastes, such as scrap steel, to third parties or recycling stations. However, we cannot completely eliminate the environmental, health and safety risks associated with our waste materials. If more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental, health and safety regulations, we could be subject to regulatory actions, fines and other penalties, including suspending production or ceasing operations, civil or criminal claims resulting in potentially significant monetary damages, adverse publicity and other negative consequences, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 14 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain PRC government tax incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives and PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, our PRC subsidiaries were subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a statutory tax rate of 33.0%. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the implementation rules issued by the State Council of the PRC, or the State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. The EIT Law provides that all enterprises in the PRC, including foreign-invested companies, are subject to a uniform 25.0% enterprise income tax rate and all tax reduction or exemption as well as incentives previously provided to foreign-invested enterprises were to be cancelled. Accordingly, our PRC subsidiaries were subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a statutory rate of 25.0% after January 1, 2008, except for (i) Zhengxing Wheel, which has been recognized as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” and enjoys a preferential tax rate of 15.0% from 2008 to 2016. (ii) Zhengxing Group Langfang Wheel Co., Ltd., which has been recognized as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” enjoys a preferential tax rate of 15.0% from 2009 to 2014, (iii) Zhengxing Group Hefei Wheel Co., Ltd., which has been recognized as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” and enjoys a preferential tax rate of 15.0% from 2010 to 2015 (the preferential tax rate of 15.0% applied retrospectively for 2010, the effect of which was not reflected in our income tax expense in 2010, and relevant adjustments were made in our consolidated financial statements for 2011) and (iv) Zhengxing Group Chengdu Wheel Co., Ltd., which was incorporated in the western region of the PRC in July 2004 and derived more than 70.0% of its total income from the business of state-encouraged industry, and enjoys a preferential tax rate of 15.0% from its inception in 2004 to 2020. These preferential income tax rates are subject to periodic review and renewal by PRC authorities. If our subsidiaries fail to maintain their preferential tax statuses, their applicable EIT rate may increase to up to 25.0%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. We also benefit from PRC tax policies designed to encourage exports. In the PRC, steel wheels are normally subject to a value-added tax, or VAT, of 17.0%, but we receive a full rebate of or exemption from the VAT for the steel wheels that we export. The value of these VAT exemptions and rebates amounted to approximately RMB104.3 million, RMB91.5 million and RMB85.9 million (US$13.8 million) in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. However, these VAT exemptions and rebates for exported steel wheels may be eliminated by the PRC government. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may suffer uncompensated losses from events that disrupt our operations because we do not have adequate insurance. We currently only maintain limited insurance, covering our major fixed assets, equipment and machinery. Our manufacturing operations are subject to risks including fire, theft, labor disputes, equipment breakdown or failure, natural disasters and non-compliance with the applicable laws or regulations. If any of these events occur at our manufacturing facilities, our manufacturing operations may be materially and adversely disrupted. There is no certainty that our insurance for our major fixed assets, equipment and machinery is sufficient to indemnify us against the losses that may arise from such events. We do not currently maintain insurance coverage for business interruption, product liability or death of key members of management. If an event occurs for which we have inadequate or no insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We incurred non-cash share-based compensation expenses in 2012 and 2013. If our company or shareholders grant restricted shares, share options and other share-based compensation to our employees, directors or consultants in consideration of their services to our company in the future, we may incur additional non-cash share-based compensation expenses, and our net income may be adversely affected. Newrace Limited, one of our shareholders, has made a grant of restricted ordinary shares to Mr. Yifan Li, our former chief financial officer, in consideration of his service to our company. As a result of this grant of restricted shares by Newrace Limited, we incurred non-cash share-based compensation expenses of RMB0.6 million, RMB0.2 million and nil in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We also incurred non-cash share-based compensation expenses of RMB1.3 million, RMB0.3 million and nil in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, in connection with the share option granted to one of our executive officers in August 2011 and the restricted share unit awards granted to each of our independent directors in March 2012 under our 2011 Share Incentive Plan. We may incur additional such expenses in connection with other share-based compensation grants we or our shareholders may make to our employees, directors or consultants in the future as an important means to attract and retain such personnel. We account for compensation costs for all such restricted share grants, share options and restricted share unit awards using the fair value determined on the grant date and recognize the expenses in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income. These compensation expenses may materially and adversely affect our net income. Please refer to Item 5A “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Equity-settled Share-based Compensation Expense.” 15 Table of Contents If we have difficulty obtaining sufficient capital for operations or expansion, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We had net current assets of RMB474.7 million, RMB660.2 million and RMB736.4 million (US$118.7 million) as of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We believe that our current levels of cash and cash flows from operations, combined with funds available to us through financing and the net proceeds from our initial public offering, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need additional cash resources in the future if we experience changed business conditions or other developments or if we wish to pursue opportunities for investment, acquisition, strategic cooperation or other similar actions. If we determine that our cash requirements exceed our cash on hand, we may seek to issue debt or equity securities or obtain a credit facility. Any issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could dilute our shareholders. Any incurrence of indebtedness could increase our debt service obligations and cause us to be subject to restrictive operating and finance covenants. It is possible that, when we need additional cash resources, financing will only be available to us in amounts or on terms that would not be acceptable to us or financing will not be available at all. If we have difficulty obtaining sufficient capital for operations or expansion, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of the PRC, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our leading competitive position. We conduct all of our manufacturing and have historically derived the majority of our revenue in the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • access to financing; and • the allocation of resources. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC economy has also experienced certain adverse effects due to the recent global financial crisis. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage and maintain economic growth and to guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us, and by government policies or guidance aimed at curtailing the perceived over-capacity of certain industry sectors, such as steel. The PRC government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. The PRC government has also discontinued certain stimulus measures implemented to deal with the recent global financial crisis, including incentives for consumers to purchase automobiles and other vehicles and may implement tightening measures to control inflation. These actions may cause decreased economic activity in the PRC, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in the PRC could have a material and adverse effect on overall economic growth, particularly in the automotive industry in the PRC, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material and adverse effect on our businesses. 16 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in the PRC. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries established in the PRC. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC. However, since many laws, rules and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of PRC administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in the PRC than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the agreements we have entered into with our business partners, distributors, customers and suppliers. Currently, all governmental approvals relating to our operations and production capacity expansion plans have been issued by the relevant competent local government authorities. However, if a central government agency requires us to obtain its approval and if we fail to obtain such approval in a timely manner, or at all, we may be subject to the imposition of fines against us or the suspension or cessation of our production capacity expansion plans. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our agreements, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in the PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in the PRC may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We currently conduct our business through our subsidiaries established in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC. Each of our PRC subsidiaries that is a domestic company is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its respective registered capital. As of December 31, 2014, the accumulated profits of our PRC subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis under PRC accounting standards, that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB1,227.2 million (US$197.8 million). Our restricted reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we receive from our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. In utilizing the proceeds we received from our initial public offering, as an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. Loans by us to domestic PRC enterprises must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. Any capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC, or the MOFCOM, or its local counterpart. On August 29, 2008, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or the SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Issues Relating to the Improvement of Business Operation With Respect to the Administration of Foreign Exchange Capital Payment and Settlement of FIEs, or Circular 142, which regulates the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from the SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules. 17 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future loans or capital contributions to our direct or indirect subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit the ability of our consolidated PRC entities to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control Over Financing and Return Investment of Domestic Residents through Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, in October 2005, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside the PRC for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. Furthermore, PRC residents are required to file amendments to their registrations with the local SAFE branch if their special purpose companies undergo material events involving changes in capital, such as changes in share capital, mergers and acquisitions, share transfers or exchanges, spin-off transactions or long-term equity or debt investments. Our current beneficial owners who, to our knowledge, are PRC residents are in the process of registering with the local SAFE branch as required under Circular 75. We cannot, however, provide any assurances that such registration will be completed in a timely manner, or at all, or that any future beneficial owners who are PRC residents will be able to comply with the SAFE regulations in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure of our current or future beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Circular 75 may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit our consolidated PRC entities’ ability to distribute dividends to us or the offshore entities set up by our beneficial owners or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Any requirement to obtain prior approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and a failure to obtain this approval, if required, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the PRC, or the SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC, or the SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce of the PRC, or the SAIC, the CSRC and the SAFE, jointly promulgated the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the 2006 M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended in June 2009. The 2006 M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC issued a clarification that sets forth the criteria and process for obtaining any required approval from the CSRC. While the application of the 2006 M&A Rule remains unclear, we believe, based on the advice of our PRC counsel, that CSRC approval was not required in the context of our initial public offering as, among other reasons, we were not considered a special purpose vehicle formed or controlled by PRC companies or PRC individuals. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agency, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that we need to obtain the CSRC’s approval for our initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. We cannot predict when the CSRC will promulgate additional rules or other guidance, if at all. Moreover, implementing rules or guidance, to the extent issued, may fail to resolve current ambiguities under the 2006 M&A Rule. Uncertainties or negative publicity regarding the 2006 M&A Rule also could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. The 2006 M&A Rule and Security Review Rule set forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors that could make it more difficult to pursue acquisitions. The 2006 M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the 2006 M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 18 Table of Contents In addition, on February 3, 2011, the State Council promulgated the Notice on the Establishment of the Security Review System in Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the Security Review Rule, which became effective 30 days after February 3, 2011. The Security Review Rule, among other things, provides that merger and acquisition transactions by foreign investors of domestic enterprises in sensitive sectors or industries may be subject to security review and, as a result may be blocked due to their impact on the national defense security, national economic stability, basic social life order, or capacity of indigenous research and development of key technologies. The impact of the Security Review Rule with respect to our future merger and acquisition transactions of PRC domestic enterprises remains unclear as such rule does not include a detailed list of sensitive sectors or industries. Although our industry is generally deemed as non-sensitive, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities may have a different view or interpretation in this regard when implementing the Security Review Rule. As a result, our future mergers and acquisitions of PRC domestic enterprises may be subject to PRC security review, which could be time-consuming and complex, and in turn affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The enforcement of the PRC labor contract law and its implementation rules and increase in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. The PRC Labor Contract Law, or the Labor Contract Law, became effective on January 1, 2008 and was amended on December 28, 2012, and the implementation rules became effective on September 18, 2008. The Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules impose more stringent obligations on employers for, among others, entering into written employment contracts, hiring temporary employees, dismissing employees, setting compensations for dismissal and protecting certain sick or disabled employees from dismissal and setting forth detailed requirements relating to the contents of the employment contracts. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee equity incentive plans may subject our PRC citizen grantees or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Share Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Share Option Rule. On February 15, 2012, the SAFE issued the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, which replaced the Share Option Rule. Under the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, PRC citizens who are granted share options or other employee equity incentive awards by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC agent or a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share options or other employee equity incentive plans. We and our PRC citizen grantees are subject to these regulations. If we or our PRC citizen grantees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC citizen grantees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. Substantially all of our sales outside the PRC are in U.S. dollars, with the remaining portion in Euros. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and the Euro is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. From 1995 until July 2005, the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain an exchange rate of approximately RMB8.28 per U.S. dollar. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government reformed this policy to allow the Renminbi to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. There have been a number of changes to the currency policy in the PRC since July 2005, and the Renminbi has appreciated significantly since then. On March 17, 2014, the PBOC announced a policy to further expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market to 2%. There currently remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Significant revaluation of the Renminbi may also have a material and adverse effect on your investment. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we received from our initial public offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. If such events occur, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents In addition, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Euro or other currencies may adversely affect the competitiveness of our product pricing in markets outside the PRC. If such appreciation occurs, our products will cost more, as denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros or other currencies, when exported to our international markets, and thus our products may not be as competitively priced in those markets as products produced in other countries which use a currency that has not appreciated as much as the Renminbi. As a result, our export volume may be adversely affected, which may cause a decrease in our revenue from international sales. Therefore, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Euro or other currencies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive the majority of our revenue in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Dividends we receive from our subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. Under the EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both of which came into effect on January 1, 2008, PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 10.0% is generally applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC, unless the tax rate is reduced by a tax treaty between the PRC and the relevant jurisdiction. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in Hong Kong, which in turn derives substantially all of its income from our indirect subsidiaries located in the PRC. If our subsidiary in Hong Kong is considered a non-resident enterprise, dividends it receives from the subsidiaries in the PRC will generally be subject to a 10.0% withholding tax under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, or 5.0% withholding tax if the tax treaty between Hong Kong and the PRC is applicable, either of which will reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the EIT Law and we may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, enterprises established under the laws of foreign countries or regions whose “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC territory are considered resident enterprises and will generally be subject to the uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25.0% on its global income, which excludes dividends received directly from another PRC resident enterprise. “De facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the SAT, issued the Notice on Determination of Tax Resident Enterprises of Chinese-controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises in accordance with Their De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, that sets forth certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management bodies” are located in the PRC for an offshore incorporated enterprise controlled by PRC enterprises. However, the relevant PRC laws and regulations remain unclear as to how the PRC tax authorities will treat an overseas enterprise, with all of its management team members residing in the PRC, invested or controlled by another overseas enterprise as in our case. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25.0% on our global income, which could adversely affected our net income and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors, and gains on the sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws, which may materially reduce the value of your investment. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 10.0% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, gains realized on the transfer of ordinary shares or ADSs by such investors are also subject to the 10.0% PRC enterprise income tax if such gains are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our indirect subsidiaries located in the PRC. It is unclear whether the dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gains realized on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as PRC-sourced income and be subject to PRC taxes. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC enterprise income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance of the PRC and the SAT jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the SAT issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retrospectively on January 1, 2008. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have strengthened their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the SAT is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed by abusing corporate structures for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial intention. We may pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures. We cannot be assured that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust the taxable capital gains of the seller, which may indirectly increase acquisition costs. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Tax issued a Public Notice Regarding Certain Corporate Income Tax Matters on Indirect Transfer of Properties by Non-Tax Resident Enterprises, or Public Notice 7. Public Notice 7 has introduced a new tax regime that is significantly different from that under Circular 698. Public Notice 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to not only indirect transfers set forth under Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of other taxable assets, through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. In addition, Public Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and has introduced safe harbors for internal group restructurings and the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market. Public Notice 7 also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee (or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer) of the taxable assets. Where a non-resident enterprise conducts an “indirect transfer” by transferring the taxable assets indirectly by disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise being the transferor, or the transferee, or the PRC entity which directly owned the taxable assets, may report to the relevant tax authority such indirect transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may re-characterize such indirect transfer as a direct transfer of the equity interests in the PRC tax resident enterprise and other properties in China. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer is obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10%, for the transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise. Both the transferor and the transferee may be subject to penalties under PRC tax laws if the transferee fails to withhold the taxes and the transferor fails to pay the taxes. We face uncertainties with respect to the reporting and consequences of private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, or sale or purchase of shares in other non-PRC resident companies or other taxable assets by us. Our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group may be subject to filing obligations or being taxed if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferors in such transactions, and may be subject to withholding obligations if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferees in such transactions, under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. For the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. As a result, we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 or to request the relevant transferors from whom we purchase taxable assets to comply with these circulars, or to establish that our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group should not be taxed under these circulars, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our financial performance and prospects could be affected by natural disasters or health epidemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics. In March 2011, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake followed by a tsunami struck northeast Japan devastating much of the affected areas and causing widespread damage and casualties. In addition, in May 2008, a magnitude 8.0 earthquake struck Sichuan Province and certain other parts of the PRC, causing severe damage and casualties. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including the PRC, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past few years and, more recently in 2009, the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1). There have also been recent reports of outbreaks of an avian flu caused by the H7N9 virus, including confirmed human cases, in China. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any future natural disasters and health and public security hazards may have on our business. Furthermore, such natural disasters and health and public security hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. The audit report included in this annual report has been prepared by auditors who are not inspected fully by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit report included in our annual report filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, is required by the laws in the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws in the United States and professional standards. However, because we have substantial operations within the PRC, the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities. As a result, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside the PRC have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in the PRC prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in the PRC makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of the PRC that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile which could result in substantial loss to you. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including the following: • announcements of competitive developments; • regulatory developments in the PRC affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • additions or departures of our executive officers; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, since August 2008, multiple exchanges in the United States, Europe and other countries and regions, including China, experienced sharp declines in response to the growing global credit market crisis and the recession in the United States and Europe. Prolonged global capital markets volatility may affect overall investor sentiment towards our ADSs, which would also negatively affect the trading prices for our ADSs. 22 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market after our initial public offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31,2015, we had 206,500,000 ordinary shares outstanding, including 62,499,988 ordinary shares represented by 15,624,997 ADSs. All ADSs sold in our initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding are available for sale, subject to restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. Our controlling shareholder has substantial influence over our company and its interests may not be aligned with your interests. As of March 31,2015, our controlling shareholder, Mr. Jianhui Lai (through Newrace Limited), beneficially owned approximately 69.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Mr. Lai is also our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. Please refer to Item 6E “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Ownership” and Item 7B “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Restricted Shares Granted to Mr. Yifan Li by Newrace Limited.” Our controlling shareholder has a substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including those who purchased ADSs in our initial public offering. Moreover, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange by virtue of being a foreign private issuer, as such term is defined in the rules promulgated by the SEC. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practice required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the New York Stock Exchange rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different from the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. For instance, we are not required to: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the Exchange Act); • have a minimum of three members on our audit committee; • have a compensation committee, a nominating or corporate governance committee; • provide an annual certification by our chief executive officer that he or she is not aware of any non-compliance with any corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; or • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year. We have relied and intend to continue to rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, you are not provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Please refer to Item 16G “Corporate Governance.” The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have an adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. 23 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, or memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, we will give the depositary notice of any such meeting and details concerning the matters to be voted upon at least 30 days in advance of the meeting date and the depositary will send a notice to you about the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. The depositary and its agents, however, may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you request. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses and any applicable taxes and government charges. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. For example, in March 2012, our board of directors declared a dividend to our shareholders in the amount of US$3.1 million, which has been paid to holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities whose offering would require registration under the Securities Act but not so properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not reasonably practicable to distribute certain property. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under the U.S. securities laws any offering of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless either both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. If the depository does not distribute the rights, it may, under the deposit agreement, either sell them, if possible, or allow them to lapse. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. If we are a passive foreign investment company, you may experience adverse tax consequences. We do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. The PFIC determination, however, depends on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules concerning the classification of our assets and income for this purpose, and these rules are uncertain in some respects. In addition, the market value of our assets may be determined in large part by the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate, and the composition of our company’s income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend any cash we raise or generate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or in any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. Please refer to Item 10E “Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 24 Table of Contents You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 