ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business The majority of our services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, and if our customers elect not to renew these agreements, our revenues may decrease. Typically, our services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, which are generally one month to one year in length, with no obligation to renew these agreements. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including the services and prices offered by our competitors, new technologies offered by others, consolidation in our customer base or if some of our customers cease their operations. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to enhance our existing services or develop new services, our services may become obsolete or less competitive and we could lose customers. If we are unable to enhance our existing services or develop new services that keep pace with rapid technological developments and meet our customers’ needs, our business will be harmed. Creating and designing such enhancements and new products entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time, and there is no guarantee that such enhancements and new products will be completed in a timely fashion. Nor is there any guarantee that any new service offerings will gain acceptance among our email marketing customers or by the broader market. For example, our existing email marketing customers may not view any new service as complementary to our email service offerings and therefore decide not to purchase such service. If we cannot enhance our existing services or develop new products or if we are not successful in selling such enhancements and new products to our customers, we cou ld lose customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, which would adversely impact our financial performance. If we are unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used an email service like ours. We rely on a variety of methods to attract new customers, such as paying providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website, direct sales and partner sales. If we are unable to use any of our current marketing initiatives or the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase or such initiatives or our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely. If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our business may be adversely affected. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Our relationships with our channel partners may be terminated or may not continue to be beneficial in generating new email marketing customers, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base. We maintain a network of active channel partners, as well as business service providers such as web developers and marketing agencies, on whom we depend to refer customers to us through links on their websites and outbound promotion to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing channel partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential channel partners, we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners over which we exercise very little control, and a significant decrease in the number of gross customer additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenue. 8 If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, the fees we may be able to charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market and customers may cancel their accounts. Internet Service Providers (ISP) can block emails from reaching their users. Recent releases of ISP software and the implementation of stringent new policies by ISPs make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. We continually improve our own technology and work closely with ISPs to maintain our deliverability rates. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the fees we charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market, and customers may cancel their accounts. We face significant threats from new entrants to our business, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. Barriers to entry in Internet service markets are low. Privately-backed and public companies could choose to enter our space and compete directly with us, or indirectly by offering substitute solutions. The result could be decreased demand or pricing for our services, longer sales cycles, or a requirement to make significant incremental investments in research and development to match these entrants’ new technologies. If any of these happens, it could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for our services is competitive and rapidly changing, and the barriers to entry are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales, limit customer attrition and maintain our prices. Our principal competitors include providers of email management services for small to medium size businesses such as AuthSmtp.com, SMTP2Go.com, JangoMail.com, SocketLabs.com, StrongMail.com, ExactTarget.com, CheetahMail.com, ConstantContact.com, iContact.com, MailChimp.com and Bronto.com, larger companies such as Amazon.com, as well as the in-house information technology capabilities of prospective customers. Competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our email marketing product to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. While we do not compete currently with vendors serving larger customers, we may face future competition from these providers if they determine that our target market presents an opportunity for them. We may also experience competition from Internet Service Providers, or ISPs, advertising and direct marketing agencies and othe r large established businesses, such as Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. or Yahoo! Inc., possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive email marketing products, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. In addition, one or more of these ISPs or other businesses could decide to offer a competitive email marketing product at no cost or low cost in order to generate revenue as part of a larger product offering. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Our current and potential competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have and may be able to bundle an email marketing product with other products that have gained widespread market acceptance. These competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our products could substantially decline. Our business is substantially dependent on continued demand for email marketing and any decrease in demand could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from organizations, including small and medium size businesses, associations and non-profits. As a result, widespread acceptance of communicating by email among small and medium size organizations is critical to our future growth and success. The overall market for email and related services is relatively new and still evolving, and small organizations have generally been slower than larger organizations to adopt email marketing as part of their marketing mix. There is no certainty regarding how or whether this market will develop, or whether it will experience any significant contractions. Our ability to attract and retain customers will depend in part on our ability to make email communications convenient, effective and affordable. If small and medium size organizations determine that email marketing and communication does not sufficientl y benefit them, existing customers may 9 cancel their accounts and potential customers may decide not to utilize our email services. In addition, many small and medium size organizations currently lack the technical expertise to effectively send large quantities of email. As technology advances, however, small and medium size organizations may establish the capability to manage their own email transmissions and therefore have no need for our email services. If the market for email services fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services may decline and our revenue would suffer. We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our customers located our website by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract a significant percentage of the customers we serve to our website. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace th is traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our operating results, harming our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising fluctuates and may increase as demand for these channels grows, and any such increases could have negative effects on our financial results. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. We have not made any material acquisitions to date and, therefore, our ability as an organization to make and integrate significant acquisitions is unproven. Moreover, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · an inability to locate a suitable acquisition candidate or technology or acquire a desirable candidate or technology on favorable terms; · difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired business or acquired technology with our existing technology and products and in retaining and motivating key personnel from the business; · disruptions in our ongoing operations and the diversion of our management’s attention from their day-to-day responsibilities associated with operating our business; · increases in our expenses that adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition; · potential write-offs of acquired assets and increased amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired; and · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. In addition, any acquisition we complete may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such an acquisition may be viewed negatively by our customers, stockholders or the financial markets. We will incur significant costs complying with our obligations as a reporting issuer, which will decrease our profitability. Upon the effectiveness of our registration statement, we will elect to file periodic reports with the Securities & Exchange Commission, including financial statements and disclosure regarding changes in our operations. In order to comply with these requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm will have to review our financial statements on a quarterly basis and audit our financial statements on an annual basis. Moreover, our legal counsel will have to review and assist in the preparation of such reports. The costs charged by these professionals for such services cannot be accurately predicted at this time because factors such as the number and type of transactions that we engage in and the complexity of our reports cannot be determined at this time and will have a major affect on the amount of time to be spent by our auditors and attorneys. However, we estimate that these costs will exceed $50,000 per year for the next few years. Th ose fees will be higher if our business volume and activity increases. Those obligations will reduce our resources to fund our operations and may prevent us from meeting our normal business obligations. Compliance costs will be charged to operations and will negatively impact our profitability. 10 Risks Related To Our Management If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Semyon Dukach, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Mr. Dukach or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our anticipated growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our anticipated growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. We are anticipating a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which may place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage this expected growth effectively. To do so, we believe we will need to continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The expected addition of new employees and the capital investments that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our anticipated growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successful ly manage our anticipated growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. None of our officers and directors have any meaningful accounting or financial reporting education or experience, which increases the risk we may be unable to comply with all rules and regulations. Our ability to meet our ongoing reporting requirements on a timely basis will be dependent to a significant degree on advisors and consultants. Our officers and directors have no meaningful accounting or financial reporting education or experience. As such, there is risk about our ability to comply with all financial reporting requirements accurately and on a timely basis. We do not have compensation or an audit committee, so shareholders will have to rely on the independent directors to perform these functions. We do not have an audit or compensation committee comprised of independent directors. These functions are performed by the independent members of our board of directors. Until we have an audit committee, there may less oversight of management decisions and activities and little ability for minority shareholders to challenge or reverse those activities and decisions, even if they are not in the best interests of minority shareholders. Our officers and directors own a controlling interest in our voting stock and investors will not have any voice in our management, which could result in decisions adverse to our general stockholders. Our officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately or have the right to vote approximately 97.27% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval including: · election of our board of directors; · removal of any of our directors; · amendment of our Articles of Incorporation or By-laws; and · adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us. 11 As a result of their ownership and positions, our officers and directors collectively are able to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our officers may differ from the interests of the other stockholders, and they may influence decisions with which the other stockholders may not agree. Such decisions may be detrimental to our business plan and/or operations and they may cause the business to fail in which case you may lose your entire investment. If we fail to hire a separate financial officer, we may become unable to implement and monitor financial controls sufficient to ensure maximum profitability and comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Semyon Dukach is our Principal Accounting Officer and assumes both this position along with being our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Although we intend to hire a Chief Financial Officer in 2011, there is no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources to do so. Our accounting controls may be ineffective unless we obtain the services of a separate Chief Financial Officer. Risks Related To Our Systems Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with their constituents. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent t o any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities and, in the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with these and other blacklisting entities. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our customers’ use of our products to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications could damage our reputation, and we may face liability for unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our services. Our customers could use our email servers to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. Any such use of our products could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ promotion of their products and services through our email marketing product may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending such claims. If we are found liable for our customers’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. We do not currently have any general liability insurance to protect us in case of customer or other claims. We do not have any general liability insurance to cover any potential claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. 12 Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events and any of these events could result in an interruption of our ability to execute clients’ email campaigns. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our third-party data centers and hardware systems. The data centers and hardware systems are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If any of these events results in damage to our third-party data centers or systems, we may be unable to execute clients’ hosted online direct marketing campaigns until the damage is repaired, and may accordingly lose clients and revenues. In addition, subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may incur substantial costs in repairing any damage. System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We provide email delivery services to our clients and end-users through our proprietary technology and client management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. We are not aware of any loss of customers due to material service interruptions. However any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some clients to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Some factors that could lead to interruptions in customer service include:&nbsp ; operator negligence; improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; physical and electronic break-ins; misappropriation; computer viruses and similar events; power loss; computer systems failures; and Internet and telecommunications failures. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause our network or systems to fail or cause our network to lose data. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. We may suddenly require additional bandwidth for which we have not adequately planned. We may secure an extremely large customer, group of customers, or experience demands for growth by an existing customer or set of customers that would require significant system resources. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate such capacity constraints. In addition, we may lose valuable data or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems, or in our customer support services, could reduce the attractiveness of our products and result in a loss of customers. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are co-located in third-party hosting facilities. None of the companies who host our systems guarantee that our customers’ access to our products will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on their ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our arrangem ents with third-party data centers are terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to their facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in access to our services, whether as a result of a third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause customers to cancel their accounts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have a disaster recovery system, which could lead to service interruptions and result in a loss of customers. We do not have any disaster recovery systems. In the event of a disaster in which our software or hardware are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our services. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our products. 13 We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our service, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our products, including hardware from such large vendors as International Business Machines Corporation, Dell Computer Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Inc. and EMC Corporation. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we lose the right to use any of this hardware or software or such hardware or software malfunctions, our customers could experience delays or be unable to access our services until we can obtain and integrate equivalent technology or repair the cause of the malfunctioning hardware or software. Any delays or failures associated with our services could upset our customers and harm our business. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our unpatented proprietary information, processes and know-how and our trade secrets, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected. We rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how and trade secrets. Although we try to protect this information in part by executing confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, such agreements may offer only limited protection and may be breached. Any unauthorized disclosure or dissemination of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how or our trade secrets, whether by breach of a confidentiality agreement or otherwise, may cause irreparable harm to our business, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, processes and know-how or our trade secrets are disclosed, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products, which could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. Customizations to open source software code generally require developers to make their work available at no cost. Since we have created our software by developing extensions which plug into open source software without modifying the open source code, we do not believe there is a risk we could be required to offer our products or make our source code available. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our products, or to release our so ftware code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The risks associated with intellectual property infringement claims are discussed immediately below. Because we have not filed for patent protection of our technologies, we face the risk of our technologies not being adequately protected. We have not applied for patent protection of our licensed technologies or processes with the US Patent and Trademark Office; if we fail to do so, we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, especially if the designs and materials used in our products are replicated by our competitors. Further, even if we file for patent protection, there is no assurance that it will be approved by the US Patent and Trademark Office. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. These claims, whether or not successful, could: 14 · divert management’s attention; · result in costly and time-consuming litigation; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; · in the case of open source software-related claims, require us to release our software code under the terms of an open source license; or · require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our agreements with our channel partners require us to indemnify them for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a third party successfully asserts a claim that our products infringe its proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all and we may be required to pay significant monetary damages to such thir d party. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed, we may be exposed to liability and we may lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Our system stores our customers’ proprietary email distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity, which could severely damage our reputation. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states, including Massachusetts, have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection policy documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers, we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our products less attractive to many small organizations by negatively impacting our customer experience and significantly increasing our administrative costs related to customer payment processing. We do not have any general liability insurance to cover any potential claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. Risks Related To Our Industry The growth of the email marketing market depends on the continued growth and effectiveness of anti-spam products, which may be insufficient to enable us to offer our services at a profit. Adoption of email as a communications medium depends on the ability to prevent junk mail, or “spam,” from overwhelming a subscriber’s electronic mailbox. In recent years, many companies have evolved to address this issue and filter unwanted messages before they reach customers’ mailboxes. In response, spammers have become more sophisticated and have also begun using junk messages as a means for fraud. Email protection companies in turn have evolved to address this new threat. However, if their products fail to be effective against spam, adoption of email as a communications tool will decline, which would adversely affect the market for our services. Current economic conditions may negatively affect the business sector, which may cause our customers to terminate existing accounts with us or cause potential customers to fail to purchase our products, resulting in a decrease in our revenue and impairing our ability to operate profitably. 15 Our email services are designed specifically for small and medium size organizations, including small and medium size businesses, associations and non-profits that frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than their larger, more established counterparts. Small organizations may choose to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our products and may experience higher failure rates. Moreover, if small organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on marketing, including email marketing, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our products, increase customer attrition and could cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we have limited experience operating our business during an economic downturn. Accordingly, we do not know if our current business mo del will continue to operate effectively during the current economic downturn. Furthermore, we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater risks we face in operating our business. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions, or a prolonged or recurring recession, will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating and financial results. U.S. federal legislation entitled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, particularly Utah and Michigan, which have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as adult or other harmful products. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted b y the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or increase our operating costs. Evolving regulations concerning data privacy may restrict our customers’ ability to solicit, collect, process and use data necessary to conduct email campaigns or to analyze the results or may increase their costs, which could harm our business. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing or use of consumers’ personal information. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit users to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals’ consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages or that record when individuals click through to an Internet address contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our customers’ ability to collect and use email addresses, pag e viewing data, and personal information, which may reduce demand for our products. They may also negatively impact our ability to effectively market our products. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to email communications. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. In addition, federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing and communications, which would adversely affect the viability of our services. 16 Risks Related To Owning Our Securities We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute your ownership of our common stock. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to: · fund our operations; · respond to competitive pressures; · take advantage of strategic opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and · develop new products or enhancements to existing products. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or through business relationships, all of which may divert our management’s attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire competing or complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Our completed acquisitions and any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities, nor can we assure you that we will be able to compl ete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: · issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; · use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; · incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; · incur large charges or substantial liabilities; · encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; · become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; and · encounter unfavorable reactions from investment banking market analysts who disapprove of our completed acquisitions. Our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to existing common stockholders and with the ability to affect adversely stockholder voting power and perpetuate their control over us. Our certificate of incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval, including large blocks of preferred stock. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders thereof the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock or other preferred 17 stockholders and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock or existing preferred stock, if any. Preferred stock could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Accordingly, any future issuance of preferred stock or any rights to purchase preferred stock may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. The issuance of preferred stock also could decrease the amount of earnings attributable to, and assets available for distribution to, the holders of our common stock and could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock and preferred stock. There is no current trading market for our securities and if a trading market does not develop, purchasers of our securities may have difficulty selling their shares. There is currently no public trading market for our common stock. Therefore, there is no central place, such as a stock exchange or electronic trading system, to resell your shares. If you do want to resell your shares, you will have to locate a buyer and negotiate your own sale. An active trading market in our securities may never develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. We intend to apply for admission to quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board. If for any reason our securities are not quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or a public trading market does not otherwise develop, purchasers of the securities may have difficulty selling their shares should they desire to do so. No market makers have committed to becoming market makers for our common stock and it may be that none will do so. As a result, you should purchase shares only as a long-term investment, and you must be prepared to hold your shares for an indefin ite period of time. Should we be successful in having our common stock quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board common stockholders will be subject to the “Penny Stock” Rules of the SEC and the trading market in our common stock would be very limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. These rules may affect your ability to resell your shares. Our shares are not currently traded on any stock exchange or quoted on any stock quotation system. We are preparing an application for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board that we intend to file in the near future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our application, however, should we receive approval for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, our common stock will likely be deemed a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security other than a security excluded from such definition by Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For the purposes relevant to our company, it is any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, to provide the customer with additional information including current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account, and to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. To the extent these requirements may be applicable, they will reduce the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock and may severely and adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may limit your ability to buy and sell our shares. FINRA rules require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, depressing our share price. United States state securities laws may limit secondary trading, which may restrict the states in which and conditions under which you can sell your shares. There is no public market for our common stock, and there can be no assurance that any public market will develop in the foreseeable future. Secondary trading in our common stock will not be possible in any state in the U.S. unless and until the common stock is qualified for sale under the applicable securities laws of a state or there is confirmation that an exemption, such as listing in certain recognized securities 18 manuals, is available for secondary trading in such state. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in registering or qualifying our common stock for secondary trading, or identifying an available exemption for secondary trading in our common stock in every state. If we fail to register or qualify, or to obtain or verify an exemption for the secondary trading of, our common stock in any particular state, our common stock could not be offered or sold to, or purchased by, a resident of that state. In the event that a significant number of states refuse to permit secondary trading in our common stock, the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. The market price of our shares would decline if our restricted stockholders sell a large number of shares. A total of 13,440,000 shares of restricted common stock have been issued to certain stockholders, which are restricted securities, as that term is defined in Rule 144 of the Rules and Regulations of the SEC promulgated under the Act. Under Rule 144, such shares can be publicly sold, subject to volume restrictions and certain restrictions on the manner of sale, commencing six months after their acquisition. Any sales of restricted shares held by these stockholders (after applicable restrictions expire) may have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock in any market that may develop, of which there can be no assurance. Our quarterly results may fluctuate and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: · our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements; · general economic conditions; · changes in our pricing policies; · our ability to expand our business; · the effectiveness of our personnel; · new product and service introductions; · technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; · the timing of additional investments in our hardware and software systems; · regulatory compliance costs; · costs associated with future acquisitions of technologies and businesses; and · extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Some of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them may cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 