Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct, including the risks discussed below. The risks discussed below, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, are not the only risks we face. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us; or, as a result of developments occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If any 25 Table of Contents of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could suffer materially and adversely, and our ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled could be impaired. In that case, the market price of the Company's common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Oil, natural gas and NGL prices and related differentials are volatile. Declines in commodity prices have adversely affected our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to grow and in the future may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, access to the capital markets and ability to grow. Our financial condition, operating results and future rate of growth depend upon the prices that we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Prices also affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our bank credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves, and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. Declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may adversely impact the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the bank pricing used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. See Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bank Credit Facility" for more details. Further, because we have elected to use the full cost accounting method, each quarter we must perform a "ceiling test" that is impacted by declining prices. Significant price declines could cause us to take one or more ceiling test write-downs, which would be reflected as non-cash charges against current earnings. See "—Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values." Further, the differentials between (1) the prices that we realize for our oil, natural gas and NGLs and (2) commonly used benchmark prices for each product, are volatile and will change over time. In addition, significant or extended price declines may also adversely affect the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in our expected cash flows and require us to reduce our capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to replace our production and our future rate of growth. The markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs have been volatile historically, and we expect them to remain volatile in the future. Oil and natural gas spot prices reached at or near historical highs in July 2008. Prices have declined since that time and may continue to fluctuate widely in the future. In the second quarter of 2012, natural gas prices reached ten year lows. As of March 8, 2013, the spot price for natural gas was US$3.63 per MMBtu for NYMEX Henry Hub and $3.33 per MMBtu for AECO, and the spot price for crude oil was US$91.95 per barrel for NYMEX West Texas Intermediate and $86.44 per barrel for Edmonton Light. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control, including, among others: •domestic and global supplies, consumer demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs and market expectations regarding supply and demand; •domestic and worldwide economic conditions; •the impact of the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar exchange rate on oil, natural gas and NGL prices; 26 Table of Contents •the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil, natural gas and NGL pipelines, processing, gathering and other transportation facilities; •weather conditions; •political conditions, instability and armed conflicts in oil-producing and gas-producing regions; •actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries directed at maintaining prices and production levels; •the price and availability of imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; •the impact of energy conservation efforts and the price and availability of alternative fuels; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and •technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply. These factors make it very difficult to predict future commodity price movements with any certainty. We sell the majority of our oil, natural gas and NGL production at current spot prices rather than through fixed-price contracts. However, we enter into, and we intend in the future to enter into, additional derivative instruments to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices. See "—Our use of hedging transactions could result in financial losses or reduce our income." Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other. Approximately 41% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2012 were natural gas. Natural gas prices have declined substantially in the last year and are expected to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Approximately 72% of our 2012 production, on an MMcfe basis, was natural gas. Sustained depressed prices of natural gas will adversely affect our assets, development plans, results of operations and financial position, perhaps materially. Natural gas prices have declined from an average NYMEX Henry Hub price of $4.00 per MMBtu in 2011 to $2.75 per MMBtu in 2012. The reduction in prices has been caused by many factors, including recent increases in gas production from non-conventional (shale) reserves, warmer than normal weather and high levels of natural gas in storage. As of December 31, 2012, we had hedged approximately 100% of our expected natural gas production in 2013 using collar structures at prices that are in line with those currently prevailing. Because prices for natural gas have continued to remain depressed for lengthy periods, in 2012 we were required to write down the value of our oil and natural gas properties and revise our development plans which caused a 131 Bcfe decrease in proved undeveloped natural gas reserves. In addition, sustained low prices for natural gas will reduce the amounts we would otherwise have available to reinvest in or business, pay expenses, and service our indebtedness. The continuing decline of natural gas prices, a future decline in oil prices and concern about the global financial markets could limit our ability to obtain funding in the capital and credit markets on terms we find acceptable, obtain additional or continued funding under our credit facility or obtain funding at all. During 2011 and 2012, we were able to access the debt and equity capital markets. However, the continuing decline of natural gas prices or a future decline in oil prices could significantly increase the cost of obtaining money in the capital and credit markets and limit our ability to access those markets as a source of funding in the future. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility and issuance of senior notes to fund our capital expenditures and acquisitions. The continuing decline of natural gas prices or a future decline in oil prices could ultimately decrease our net revenue and 27 Table of Contents profitability. The recent natural gas price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. These events affect our ability to access capital in a number of ways, which include the following: •Our ability to access new debt or credit markets on acceptable terms may be limited, and this condition may last for an unknown period of time. •Our bank credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our estimated proved reserves and their internal criteria. •Our bank credit facility limits our ratio of total debt to trailing 12-month Adjusted EBITDA to no more than 4.0 to 1.0. •We may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our bank credit facility because our lenders may simply be unwilling to meet their funding obligations. •The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our bank credit facility limit (and any future financing agreements likely will limit) our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available, if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or if funding is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to post collateral to support our obligations, or we may be unable to implement our development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, or financial condition. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain funding to make acquisitions of additional properties containing proved oil or natural gas reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to maintain our level of production and cash flow. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to execute our operating strategy. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our exploration, development and production operations, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production. As part of our exploration and development operations, we have expanded, and expect to further expand, the application of horizontal drilling and multi-stage hydraulic fracture stimulation techniques. The utilization of these techniques requires substantially greater capital expenditures as compared to the drilling of a vertical well, sometimes more than three times the cost. The incremental capital expenditures are the result of greater measured depths and additional hydraulic fracture stages in horizontal wellbores. We intend to rely on cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset dispositions as our primary sources of liquidity. There can be no assurance that such sources will be sufficient to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. Our ability to access the private or public equity capital markets or complete asset sales to fund such activities is subject to certain limitations related to our spin-off from Forest. If our revenues and cash flows decrease in the future as a result of a decline in commodity prices or a reduction in production levels, however, and we are unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing in the private or public capital markets or access alternative sources of funds, we may be required to reduce the level of our 28 Table of Contents capital expenditures and may lack the capital necessary to replace our reserves or maintain our production levels. Our future revenues, cash flows and spending levels are subject to a number of factors, including commodity prices, the level of production from existing wells and our success in developing and producing new wells. Further, our ability to access funds under our bank credit facility is based on a borrowing base, which is subject to periodic redeterminations based on our estimated proved reserves and prices that will be determined by our lenders using the bank pricing prevailing at such time. If the prices for oil and natural gas decline, or if we have a downward revision in estimates of our proved reserves, our borrowing base may be reduced. See Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bank Credit Facility" for more details. Our ability to access the private and public equity and debt markets and complete future asset monetization transactions is also dependent upon oil, natural gas and NGL prices, in addition to a number of other factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include, among others: •the value and performance of our debt and equity securities; •domestic and global economic conditions; and •conditions in the domestic and global financial markets. In addition, in connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into separation agreements with Forest to preserve the tax-free status of our spin-off from Forest. As a result, we are restricted in our ability to sell assets outside the ordinary course of business, to issue or sell our common stock or certain other securities (including securities convertible into our common stock but excluding certain compensation arrangements) or to enter into any other corporate transaction that would cause us to undergo either a 50% or greater change in the ownership of our voting stock or a 50% or greater change in the ownership (measured by value) of all classes of our stock. See "—Risks Related to Our Separation from Forest—The separation agreements may limit our ability to obtain additional financing or make acquisitions and may require us to pay significant tax liabilities." Recent credit concerns and related turmoil in the global financial markets have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face additional challenges if economic and financial market conditions worsen. The weakened economic conditions also may adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables. For example, our accounts receivable are primarily from purchasers of our oil, natural gas and NGL production and other exploration and production companies that own working interests in the properties that we operate. This industry concentration could adversely impact our overall credit risk because our customers and working interest owners may be similarly affected by changes in economic and financial market conditions, commodity prices and other conditions. Further, a credit crisis and turmoil in the financial markets in the future could cause our commodity derivative instruments to be ineffective in the event a counterparty was unable to perform its obligations or sought bankruptcy protection. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required, or on acceptable terms. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had US$200 million of Senior Notes outstanding and $148 million outstanding under our bank credit facility, and we had unused commitments of approximately $125.0 million under our bank credit facility (after deducting $2.0 million of outstanding letters of credit). As of March 8, 2013, we had US$200 million of Senior Notes outstanding and $151 million outstanding under our bank credit facility, and we had unused commitments of approximately $122.0 million under our bank credit facility (after deducting $2.0 million of outstanding letters of credit). Subject to the limits contained in the indenture governing the US$200 million aggregate principal amount of 10.375% senior notes due 2017 (the "Senior Notes") and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes and our other debt instruments; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; •limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the oil and gas industry; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities and to pay our debt obligations. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operating activities to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: •selling assets; •reducing or delaying capital investments; •seeking to raise additional capital; or •refinancing or restructuring our debt. 30 Table of Contents If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. If amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility or the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and our bank credit facility contain substantial operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility contain, and any future indebtedness that we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries; •pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; •make investments; •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •create or incur certain liens; •make certain acquisitions and investments; •redeem or prepay other debt; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and •engage in certain business activities. In addition, the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility provides that we will not permit our ratio of total debt outstanding to Adjusted EBITDA (as adjusted for divestitures with a transaction value in excess of US$25 million) for a trailing 12-month period to be greater than 4.00 to 1.00. At December 31, 2012, this ratio was 3.8 to 1.0. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. 31 Table of Contents The credit agreement governing our bank credit facility also limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion taking into account the estimated value of our oil and gas properties. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand for repayment, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our bank credit facility or sell assets, debt or common stock. We may not be able to obtain such financing or complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to make the required repayment could result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility. A failure to comply with the requirements of the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility or our future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If an event of default under the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility occurs and remains uncured, the lenders thereunder: •would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; •could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; •may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or •may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements. A payment default or an acceleration under the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility could result in an event of default and an acceleration under the indenture for the Senior Notes. If the indebtedness under the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, our obligations under the credit agreement governing our bank credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our outstanding indebtedness under our bank credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Please see Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Our use of hedging transactions could result in financial losses or reduce our income. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices, we enter into derivative instruments (or hedging agreements) for a portion of our oil, natural gas and NGL production. We expect that our commodity hedging agreements will be limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less; however, in conjunction with acquisitions, we may enter into or acquire hedges for longer periods. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among others, the risk that: •we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil, natural gas and NGL prices as a result of these transactions; •we may hedge too much or too little production, depending on how oil, natural gas and NGL prices fluctuate in the future; •there is a change to the expected differential between the underlying price and the actual price received; and •a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may default on its obligations to us. Our hedging transactions will impact our earnings in various ways. Due to the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, we may be required to recognize mark-to-market gains and losses on 32 Table of Contents derivative instruments, as the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative instruments is subject to significant fluctuations from period to period. The amount of any actual gains or losses recognized will likely differ from our period-to-period estimates and will be a function of the actual price of the commodities on the settlement date of the derivative instrument. We expect that commodity prices will continue to fluctuate in the future, and, as a result, our periodic financial results will be subject to fluctuations related to our derivative instruments. The implementation of financial reform legislation and regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices, we enter into additional derivative instruments (or hedging agreements) for a portion of our oil, natural gas and NGL production. Over-the-counter derivatives have been the subject of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives. On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including businesses like ours, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC"), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September of 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court's decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of "swap", "security-based swap", "swap dealer" and "major swap participant." The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC Rules also will require us, in connection with certain derivatives activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. In Canada, securities regulatory authorities have since November 2010 published a series of consultation papers on over-the-counter derivatives regulation, which present high-level proposals and recommendations on derivatives market regulation that are similar, in certain respects, to matters provided for under the Dodd-Frank Act. Such legislative and regulatory initiatives could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure any derivatives contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we limit our use of derivatives as a result of any such legislative and regulatory initiatives, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our revenues could, therefore, be adversely affected if a consequence of any new legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values. We use the full cost method of accounting to report our oil and gas operations. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit," which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a "ceiling test write-down." Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test write-down would not impact cash flow from operating activities, but it would reduce our stockholders' equity. See Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, Judgments and Assumptions—Full Cost Method of Accounting" for further details. Investments in unproved properties, including capitalized interest costs, are also assessed periodically to ascertain whether impairment has occurred. Unproved properties whose costs are individually significant are assessed individually by considering the primary lease terms of the properties, the holding period of the properties and geographic and geologic data obtained relating to the properties. The amount of impairment assessed, if any, is added to the costs to be amortized. If an impairment of unproved properties results in a reclassification to proved oil and gas properties, the amount by which the ceiling limit exceeds the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties would be reduced. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, our unproved properties or goodwill increases when oil, natural gas and NGL prices are low. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. For example, we recorded non-cash ceiling test write-downs of approximately $128.8 million in the second quarter of 2012, and $142.9 million in the third quarter of 2012. These write-downs were reflected as a charge to net earnings. Additional ceiling test write-downs may be required if oil, natural gas and NGL prices decline further or the current decline in natural gas prices continues, unproved property values decrease, estimated proved reserve volumes are revised downward or costs incurred in exploration, development or acquisition activities exceed the discounted future net cash flows from the additional reserves, if any. Our proved reserves are estimates and depend on many assumptions. Any material inaccuracies in these assumptions could cause the quantity and value of our oil and natural gas reserves, and our revenue, profitability and cash flow, to be materially different from our estimates. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In connection with the preparation of our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. 34 Table of Contents Actual future production, natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our estimated proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated proved reserves. We are required to base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on 12-month average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. We have based our estimated discounted future net revenues from our estimated proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding 12 months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs; •actual cost and timing of development and production expenditures; •the amount and timing of actual production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Form 10-K. Our failure to replace our reserves could result in a material decline in our reserves and production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In general, our proved reserves decline when oil and natural gas is produced, unless we are able to conduct successful exploitation, exploration and development activities or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our future performance, therefore, is dependent upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may not be able to economically find, develop or acquire additional reserves or may not be able to make the necessary capital investments if our cash provided by operating activities decline or external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploitation, exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. See "—We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to execute our operating strategy" for a discussion of the impact of financial market conditions on our access to financing. 35 Table of Contents Our actual production could differ materially from our forecasts. From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells. In addition, our forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with our oil and gas operations summarized in this Form 10-K occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects or significant declines in commodity prices or material increases in costs, which could make certain production uneconomical. As part of our ongoing operations, we plan to explore in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling in these areas is subject to greater risk and uncertainty. We sometimes explore in new or emerging plays. These activities are more uncertain than drilling in areas that are developed and have established production. Because emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results to help predict future results. The lack of historical information may result in our being unable to fully execute our expected drilling programs in these areas, or the return on investment in these areas may turn out to not be as attractive as anticipated. We cannot assure you that our future drilling activities in the Utica Shale in Quebec, the Liard Basin in the Northwest Territories or other emerging plays will be successful or, if successful, will achieve the potential resource levels that we currently anticipate based on the drilling activities that have been completed or will achieve the anticipated economic returns based on our current cost models. Exploration and drilling activities involve substantial risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The seismic data and other technologies that we use when drilling wells do not allow us to conclusively determine prior to drilling a well whether oil, natural gas or NGLs are present or can be produced economically. As a result, we may drill new wells or participate in new wells that are dry wells or are productive but not commercially productive, and, as a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in the wells we drill or in which we participate. The costs and expenses of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain. The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our drilling costs to be significantly higher than expected or cause our drilling activities to be unsuccessful or result in the total loss of our investment. Also, our development and exploration operations may be shortened, delayed or canceled or we may incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: •unexpected drilling conditions; •geological irregularities or pressure in formations; •mechanical difficulties and equipment failures or accidents; •increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and related equipment; •shortages in labor; •adverse weather conditions; •compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; •fires, explosions, blow-outs or cratering; and 36 Table of Contents •restricted access to land necessary for drilling or laying pipelines. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including well blow-outs, cratering, explosions, pipe failures, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, other environmental hazards and risks outside of our control, including the factors described above and other risks associated with conducting drilling activities. Among other things, these risks include the risk of natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases and extensive abandonment, reclamation and remediation costs, any of which could result in substantial losses, personal injuries or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, extensive pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations, administrative, civil and criminal penalties and injunctions resulting in the suspension of our operations. If any of these risks occur, we could sustain substantial losses. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil, natural gas or NGLs in commercially viable quantities. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil, natural gas or NGLs in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively, prior to drilling, whether oil, natural gas or NGLs will be present or, if present, whether oil, natural gas or NGLs will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil, natural gas or NGLs exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon-bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our other identified drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In summary, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Our drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the significant amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimate of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2012, we had 147 gross (134 net) drilling locations with proved undeveloped reserves attributed to them. All of our drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, natural gas or NGLs from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. 37 Table of Contents Our acreage must be drilled before lease expiration, generally within three to five years, in order to hold the acreage by production. If natural gas prices remain depressed for an extended period of time, it might not be economic for us to drill sufficient wells in order to hold acreage, which could result in the expiry of a portion of our acreage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operation. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of our drilling locations are identified, the leases for such acreage may expire. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 1%, 5% and 6% of our net undeveloped acreage was held under leases that will expire in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, if not extended by exploration or production activities. Competition within our industry is intense and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and gas companies in acquiring desirable oil and gas properties and in obtaining the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. We also compete with major and independent oil and gas companies in the marketing and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Many of these competitors are larger, including some of the fully integrated energy companies, and have financial, staff and other resources substantially greater than ours. As a result, these companies may have greater access to capital and may be able to pay more for development prospects and producing properties, or evaluate and bid for a greater number of properties and prospects, than our financial and staffing resources permit. Also, from time to time, we have to compete with financial investors in the property acquisition market, including private equity sponsors with more funds and access to additional liquidity. Factors that affect our ability to acquire properties include availability of desirable acquisition targets, staff and resources to identify and evaluate properties, available funds and internal standards for minimum projected return on investment. In addition, while costs for equipment, services and labor in the industry, as well as the cost of properties available for acquisition, tend to fluctuate with oil, natural gas and NGL prices, these costs often do not decrease proportionately to, or their decreases lag behind, decreases in commodity prices. This disconnect can negatively impact our cash flows and may put us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to companies that have greater financial and operational resources. In addition, oil and gas producers are increasingly facing competition from providers of non-fossil energy, and government policy may favor those competitors in the future. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and that our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations will not suffer as a result. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations and economic and political developments. Currently, all of our oil and gas properties and operations are located in Canada. As a result, we are exposed to the risks associated with operating as a foreign company in Canada, including political and economic developments, royalty and tax increases, changes in laws or policies affecting our exploration and development activities and currency exchange risks, as well as changes in the policies of Canada affecting trade, taxation, investment and the environment. Our operations are impacted by the regulatory requirements in the provinces and territories in which our operations are located, and our project economics are influenced by the differing royalty regimes in each of these locations. Any adverse regulatory developments relating to the royalty regimes applicable to our operations or the laws or policies affecting our exploration and development activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See "—Our oil and gas operations are subject to various environmental and other governmental 38 Table of Contents laws and regulations that materially affect our operations" below and "—New laws or regulatory requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing of producing formations and could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce oil and gas from new wells" below and "Business—Industry Regulation," "Business—Royalties," "Business—Land Tenure" and "Business—Environmental Regulation—Climate Change Regulation," in Part I, "Item I. Business" for more detail on the Canadian regulatory framework. Effective October 1, 2011, Lone Pine changed its functional currency and reporting currency from the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar. Following the changes in functional currency and reporting currency, we will be subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to the Senior Notes, certain of our derivative instruments and our delivery commitment of approximately 21,000 MMBtu/d of natural gas under a long-term sales contract expiring in 2014. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various environmental and other governmental laws and regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various Canadian federal, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions, and regulate, among other things, land tenure, the exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources and the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products from oil and gas and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. Federal authorities do not regulate the price of oil and gas in export trade. However, Canadian law regulates the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs that may be removed from the provinces and exported from Canada in certain circumstances. Significant regulatory requirements also exist related to licensing for drilling and completion of wells, the method and ability to produce from wells, surface usage, transportation of production and conservation matters. In addition, the provinces and territories in which we operate have laws and regulations governing land tenure, royalties, production rates and taxes, environmental protection and other matters under their respective jurisdiction. Compliance with these laws and regulations can affect the location or size of leases and facilities, prohibit or limit the extent to which exploration and development may be allowed and require proper abandonment of wells and restoration of properties when production ceases. Failure to comply with laws and regulations in effect from time to time may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of remedial obligations, loss or cancellation of governmental or regulatory approvals and issuance of injunctions or similar orders that could delay, limit or prohibit certain of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to stringent rules concerning the release into the environment of substances in connection with drilling and production activities (including fracture stimulation operations), and a significant spill or other discharge from one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Most oil and natural gas resources located in the Canadian provinces and territories in which we operate are owned by the government, and are explored for and produced pursuant to leases, licenses, permits and regulations issued by that government or its agencies. Any governmental action to unilaterally cancel, limit or otherwise adversely change any such lease, license, permit or regulation pursuant to which we explore for or produce oil or natural gas, which action could include termination of our property interests or other rights in affected lands, with or without compensation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our operations are, and will continue to be, affected to varying degrees by laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, which may be changed to impose higher standards and potentially 39 Table of Contents more costly obligations on us. Future environmental laws or regulations or approvals or processes required thereunder, the direct and indirect costs of complying with such laws, regulations, approvals or processes, and the consequences of any non-compliance, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We believe that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulation will continue toward stricter standards. See Part I, "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation." Canadian federal, provincial and territorial governments are continuing to assess and develop GHG emission reduction strategies. The direct and indirect costs of complying with any GHG emission reduction requirements arising from the implementation of any such strategies or any related laws or regulations imposed either federally, provincially, territorially or locally may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See Part I, "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation—Climate Change Regulation." New laws or regulatory requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing of producing formations and could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce oil and gas from new wells. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons. The process involves the injection of fluid, sand and chemicals under pressure into a hydrocarbon-bearing geological formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Some concern has been expressed over the potential environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing operations, including with respect to the qualitative and quantitative effect on water resources, as large quantities of water are used and injected fluids either remain underground or flow back to the surface to be collected, treated and disposed of. Governmental and regulatory authorities in certain jurisdictions have announced initiatives in response to such concerns. In Quebec, the provincial government, acting upon recommendations of BAPE, which had been requested to review environmental and health and safety issues concerning the development of the shale gas industry in Quebec in connection with the government's consideration of a new oil and gas regulatory regime for the province, announced in March 2011 a SEA of shale gas activities in the province during which hydraulic fracturing would only be allowed if required for SEA purposes, and in February 2013, an intention to bring in legislation that formally imposes a moratorium on shale gas exploration and exploitation pending the enactment of a new legislative framework for hydrocarbon activities following completion of the SEA and further public hearings by BAPE. On June 13, 2011, Quebec enacted legislation that prohibits oil and gas activities in the St. Lawrence River upstream of Anticosti Island and on the islands situated in that part of the river and revokes, without compensation, oil and gas rights previously issued for that area. We held exploration licenses to 33,460 net acres of undeveloped lands under the St. Lawrence River that were revoked by this legislation. On November 8, 2012, we filed a Notice of Intent to Submit a Claim to Arbitration under the North American Free Trade Agreement against the Government of Canada in response to the expropriation without compensation effected by Province of Quebec through Bill 18. No reserves are attributed to our Quebec properties. In British Columbia, public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluid ingredients became mandatory as of January 1, 2012, and the provincial government established an online registry providing public access to information on fractured well locations and hydraulic fracturing fluid ingredients. In December 2012, the ERCB also updated their provincial data filing requirements used in hydraulic fracturing operations to increase public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluid ingredients, See Part I, "Item 1. Business—Significant Properties—Shales" and "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation." Regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing have also commenced or been announced in the United States, where some states have adopted or are considering the adoption of regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose new permitting burdens on hydraulic fracturing activities and require disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") has commenced a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the agency has indicated that it expects to 40 Table of Contents issue its study report in late 2014. The EPA study and report may provide a basis for seeking to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. If new laws or regulatory requirements that prohibit or otherwise significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted in any jurisdiction in which we operate, whether as a consequence of environmental concerns or otherwise, it may become more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, additional permitting, disclosure or other regulatory obligations may make it more difficult for us to complete oil and natural gas wells and cause permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights in portions of Canada. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights in portions of Canada. We are not aware that any claims have been made against us in respect of our properties and assets; however, if a claim arose and was successful, such claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our operations may be delayed or interrupted to the extent that they are deemed to encroach on the traditional rights of aboriginal peoples to hunt, trap or otherwise have access to natural resources. For example, in 2010, we encountered certain infrastructure constraints in our Ojay field in British Columbia, due in part to a several-month delay in permitting required for gathering pipelines installed in the field, while an aboriginal people considered the installation's potential impact on their traditional land use. We may face similar delays and interruptions in the future. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities over which we may have no control. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. Any significant change in market factors affecting these infrastructure facilities, as well as delays in the construction of new infrastructure facilities, could harm our business. We deliver a majority of our oil, natural gas and NGLs through gathering facilities and downstream infrastructure that we either do not own or do not operate. As a result, we are subject to the risk that these facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to mechanical reasons or market conditions, or may not be available to us in the future. For example, we experienced shut-in production due to infrastructure constraints in our Ojay field in British Columbia in 2010, due in part to a several-month delay in permitting required for gathering pipelines recently installed in the field, while an aboriginal people considered the installation's potential impact on their traditional land use. If we experience interruptions or loss of pipelines or access to gathering systems that impact a substantial amount of our production, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. The exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGLs involve operating risks. These risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, damaged drilling and oil field equipment, abnormally pressured formations, weather-related issues and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases and extensive abandonment, reclamation and remediation costs. If any of these industry-operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Consistent with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Generally, pollution-related environmental risks are not fully insurable. We do 41 Table of Contents not insure against business interruption. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate to fully cover our losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods. We have incurred, and will in the future incur, increased legal, accounting and other costs as a result of being a public company. Prior to our IPO, as a subsidiary of a public company, we were not directly responsible for the corporate governance and financial reporting practices, policies and disclosure required of a public company. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur in the future, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not directly incur in the past. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), the Dodd-Frank Act and applicable Canadian securities laws, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian securities regulators and the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"), require or may require changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. All of the foregoing may cause our costs to be higher than the historical costs associated with these areas reflected in our financial statements. Our results as a separate, stand-alone public company could be materially different from those portrayed in our historical financial results. Certain of the historical financial information included in this Form 10-K has been derived from the consolidated financial statements of LPR Canada before it became a subsidiary of Lone Pine Resources Inc. The historical costs and expenses reflected in LPR Canada's consolidated financial statements for the periods prior to our IPO include a management fee intended to reimburse Forest for certain corporate functions provided by Forest on our behalf, including, among other things, executive oversight, insurance and risk management, treasury, information technology, legal, accounting, tax, marketing, corporate engineering and human resources services. The management fee was based on what Forest considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. In addition, a portion of the interest costs reflected in LPR Canada's consolidated financial statements was associated with a note payable to and advances from Forest, which provided for interest rates that may not have been comparable with the rates we would have negotiated with a third party. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a separate, stand-alone public company. For additional information, see Part II, "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" and Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Separation from Forest Our separation agreements with Forest require us to assume the past, present and future liabilities related to our business and may be less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We entered into agreements with Forest related to the separation of our business operations from Forest, including a separation and distribution agreement, a tax sharing agreement, a transition services agreement, an employee matters agreement and a registration rights agreement. We negotiated our separation agreements with Forest as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Forest and entered into these agreements immediately prior to the completion of our IPO. If these agreements had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, they might have been more favorable to us. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify Forest for, among other matters, all past, present and future liabilities (other than tax liabilities, which will be governed by our tax sharing agreement with Forest) related to our business, and we have assumed these liabilities under the separation agreements. Such liabilities include unknown liabilities that could be significant. The allocation of liabilities between Forest and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between two unaffiliated parties. The separation agreements may limit our ability to obtain additional financing or make acquisitions and may require us to pay significant tax liabilities. We may engage, or desire to engage, in future financings or acquisitions. However, because the separation agreements are designed to preserve the tax-free status of the spin-off, we have agreed to certain restrictions in those agreements that may severely limit our ability to effect future financings or acquisitions. For a period of two years after the date of the spin-off, we have agreed to be subject to certain restrictions under which we will be permitted to take certain actions only if Forest consents to the taking of such action or if we obtain and provide to Forest a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and/or an opinion from a law firm or accounting firm, in either case acceptable to Forest in its sole discretion, to the effect that such action would not jeopardize the tax-free status of the contribution and the spin-off. Thus, for that two-year period, these covenants will restrict our ability to sell assets outside the ordinary course of business, to issue or sell our common stock or other securities (including securities convertible into our common stock but excluding certain compensation arrangements) or to enter into any other corporate transaction that would cause us to undergo either a 50% or greater change in the ownership of our voting stock or a 50% or greater change in the ownership (measured by value) of all classes of our stock. We are also required to indemnify Forest against certain tax-related liabilities incurred by Forest relating to the spin-off, to the extent caused by us. These liabilities include the substantial tax-related liability (calculated without regard to any net operating loss or other tax attribute of Forest) that would result if the spin-off failed to qualify as a tax-free transaction. Finally, we are required to indemnify Forest against any additional Canadian tax-related liabilities incurred by Forest with respect to the contribution to us of its ownership interests in, and certain indebtedness of, LPR Canada and the transactions completed in conjunction with such contribution. As a result of these transactions, Forest determined that it was required to pay Canadian taxes in an amount consistent with an opinion of Forest's outside tax advisor and paid such taxes. To the extent that the Canadian tax authorities disagree with Forest's determination of the amount of Canadian taxes due and attempt to assess and recover additional Canadian taxes from Forest, we will be required to indemnify, and if necessary reimburse, Forest with respect to such additional taxes, costs incurred in contesting such additional taxes and any penalties and interest associated with such additional taxes. We believe that our maximum monetary exposure relating to this indemnity is approximately $47 million, plus interest. The triggering of this indemnity could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and our ability to execute our business plan. 43 Table of Contents We will not have complete control over our tax decisions that relate to periods prior to the spin-off and could be liable for income taxes owed by Forest. We or one or more of our U.S. subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Forest or one or more of its subsidiaries for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes for periods prior to the spin-off. Under the tax sharing agreement, we generally will pay to, or receive from, Forest the amount of U.S. federal, state and local income taxes that we would be required to pay to, or entitled to receive from, the relevant taxing authorities if we and our U.S. subsidiaries filed combined, consolidated or unitary income tax returns and were not included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Forest or its subsidiaries. In addition, by virtue of the tax sharing agreement, Forest will effectively control all of our U.S. tax decisions in connection with any combined, consolidated or unitary income tax returns in which we or any of our subsidiaries are included. The tax sharing agreement provides that Forest will have sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to us, to file all tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to, or entitlement to payment from, Forest in connection with any combined, consolidated or unitary income tax returns in which we (or any of our subsidiaries) are included. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Forest and us. For example, under the tax sharing agreement, Forest will be able to choose to contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Forest and detrimental to us. Moreover, notwithstanding the tax sharing agreement, U.S. federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group's entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Forest or other members of the group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payments required by law for periods during which we were a member of such group, we could be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state or local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Forest or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state or local income tax purposes. If there is a determination that the spin-off is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then Forest and its shareholders could incur significant income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities. Our IPO and the spin-off were conditioned upon, among other things, Forest's receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS, and/or an opinion of its outside tax advisor, in either case reasonably acceptable to the Forest board of directors, to the effect that the contribution by Forest of its direct and indirect ownership interest in LPR Canada to us and the distribution by Forest of the shares of our common stock held by Forest after the offering should qualify for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Forest obtained an opinion of its outside tax advisor that was acceptable to the Forest board of directors to the effect that the contribution by Forest of its direct and indirect ownership interest in LPR Canada to us and the distribution by Forest of the shares of our common stock held by Forest after our IPO should qualify for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, which opinion satisfied the related condition to our IPO and the spin-off. Forest also received a private letter ruling from the IRS. The opinion and the ruling rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Forest and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Forest and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling or the opinion of its tax advisor and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling or the opinion of Forest's tax advisor, the IRS could determine upon audit that the spin-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not 44 Table of Contents covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Forest or us after the spin-off. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Forest and its shareholders could incur significant income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Forest that we did not assume in our agreements. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for retained liabilities of Forest. Under the separation agreements, Forest has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to these retained liabilities. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Forest. Our prior relationship with Forest exposes us to risks attributable to businesses of Forest. Forest is obligated to indemnify us for losses that a party may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the business of Forest that are incurred through a breach of the separation agreements or any ancillary agreement by Forest or its affiliates other than us, if losses are attributable to Forest in connection with our IPO or were not expressly assumed by us under the separation agreements. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Forest in accordance with these arrangements would require us to exercise our rights under the separation agreements to obtain payment from Forest. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Forest cannot, or will not, make the required payment. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with Forest regarding our past and ongoing relationships, and the resolution of these conflicts may not be favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Forest and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: •labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising under the separation agreements; •employee recruiting and retention; and •business opportunities that may be attractive to both Forest and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may not be favorable to us. For two years after the completion of our IPO, (1) Forest has agreed not to acquire any oil and gas properties in Canada, unless such oil and gas properties in Canada constitute less than a majority of the assets included in a particular business opportunity, and (2) we have agreed not to acquire any oil and gas properties in the United States, unless such oil and gas properties in the United States constitute less than a majority of the assets included in a particular business opportunity. However, during this two-year period, if Forest obtains our prior consent with respect to a defined area in Canada, it may engage in activities in that area, and, similarly, if we obtain Forest's prior consent with respect to a defined area in the United States, we may engage in activities in that area. For two years after the completion of our IPO, neither we nor Forest will be permitted to solicit each other's active employees for employment without the other's consent. 45 Table of Contents Pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, Forest is not required to offer corporate opportunities to us, and one of our directors is permitted to offer certain corporate opportunities to Forest before us. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, until both (1) Forest and its subsidiaries no longer beneficially own 50% or more of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock generally entitled to vote in the election of our directors and (2) no person who is a director or officer of Forest or of a subsidiary of Forest is also a director or officer of ours: •Forest is free to compete with us in any activity or line of business, except as provided in the separation and distribution agreement or other written agreement between us and Forest; •we do not have any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which Forest engages or seeks to engage merely because we engage in the same or similar lines of business; •to the fullest extent permitted by law, Forest will have no duty to communicate its knowledge of, or offer, any potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter to us, and Forest is free to pursue or acquire such business opportunity, transaction or other matter for itself or direct the business opportunity, transaction or other matter to its affiliates and Forest will not, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have (1) breached or acted in a manner inconsistent with or opposed to its fiduciary or other duties to us regarding the business opportunity, transaction or other matter or (2) acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with the best interests of our company or our stockholders; and •to the fullest extent permitted by law, if any director or officer of Forest who is also one of our officers or directors becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter (other than one expressly offered to that director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer), that director or officer will have no duty to communicate or offer that business opportunity to us and will be permitted to communicate or offer that business opportunity to Forest (or its affiliates), and that director or officer will not, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have (1) breached or acted in a manner inconsistent with or opposed to his or her fiduciary or other duties to us regarding the business opportunity, transaction or other matter or (2) acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with the best interests of our company or our stockholders. As a result of the Distribution, Forest has no remaining ownership interest in us; however, the Chairman of our Board of Directors is also the President & Chief Executive Officer and a director of Forest. As a result, Forest may gain the benefit of corporate opportunities that are presented to this director. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of common stock or securities or instruments that are convertible into our common stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. 46 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will need to sell your shares of common stock to receive any income or realize a return on your investment. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, certain restrictive covenants in our bank credit facility and certain restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the Senior Notes. The future payment of dividends will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. As a result, to receive any income or realize a return on your investment, you will need to sell your shares of common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of our preferred stock, including the number of shares, in any series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of your shares. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including: •a classified Board of Directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; •limitations on the removal of directors; •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent in certain circumstances; •a separate vote of 75% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock in order for stockholders to amend the bylaws in certain circumstances; and •advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to our Board of Directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. In addition, the rights agreement will impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock without approval from our Board of Directors. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Further, these provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change our direction or our management may be unsuccessful. 47 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 