ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, including information in the section of this document titled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating results, and because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target business concerning our initial business combination but may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If we fail to complete our initial business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. Our public stockholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed initial business combination, which means we may consummate our initial business combination even though a substantial number or majority of our public stockholders do not support such a combination. We may not hold a stockholder vote before we consummate our initial business combination unless the business combination would require stockholder approval under applicable state law or if we decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons. Accordingly, we may consummate our initial business combination even if holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock do not approve of the business combination we consummate. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote in favor of such initial business combination, regardless of how our public stockholders vote. Unlike many other blank check companies in which the founders agree to vote their founder shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the public stockholders in connection with an initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote their founder shares, as well as any public shares purchased during or after the offering, in favor of our initial business combination. Our initial stockholders own 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, it is more likely that the necessary stockholder approval will be received than would be the case if out initial stockholders agreed to vote their founder shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by our public stockholders. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding our initial business combination will be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your shares from us for cash, unless we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination. At the time of your investment in us, you will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Since our board of directors may consummate our initial business combination without seeking stockholder approval, public stockholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on our initial business combination, unless we seek such stockholder vote. Accordingly, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time (which will be at least 20 business days) set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our public stockholders in which we describe our initial business combination. 21 The ability of our stockholders to redeem their shares for cash may make our financial condition unattractive to potential business combination targets, which may make it difficult for us to enter into a business combination with a target. We may enter into an acquisition agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition to our initial business combination that we have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. If too many stockholders exercise their redemption rights, we may not be able to meet such closing condition, and as a result, would not be able to proceed with the business combination. Furthermore, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our stockholders’ equity to be less than $5,000,001. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation require us to provide all of our stockholders with an opportunity to redeem all of their shares in connection with the consummation of any initial business combination. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our stockholders’ equity to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. Prospective targets would be aware of these risks and, thus, may be reluctant to enter into a business combination transaction with us. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. If our initial business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. If the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to the target or its stockholders to make up for the failure to satisfy a minimum cash requirement. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the time frame required, in which case we would redeem our public shares and liquidate. Our sponsor, officers and directors have agreed that we must complete our initial business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering, which was consumated on February 22, 2011. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within such time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within such 21-month period, we will be required, under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, to: ·cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; ·as promptly as reasonably possible, redeem 100% of our public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest but net of franchise and income taxes payable and less up to $100,000 of such net interest that may be released to us from the trust account to pay dissolution expenses, divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, together with the contingent right to receive, following our dissolution, a pro rata share of the balance of our net assets that would otherwise be payable to holders of our common stock under Nevada law, if any; and 22 ·as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining shareholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate; subject to the requirements of Nevada law to provide for claims of creditors and that a corporation not make a distribution to stockholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, either (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or (ii) the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Although we do not currently intend to do so, we could seek stockholder approval to extend the 21-month time period if we have not consummated a business combination within that period. Under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, the approval of holders of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock would be required to extend that time period, and in no event may we extend that time period on more than one occasion, or by more than three months. Our negotiating position and our ability to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets may decrease as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to consummate our initial business combination that would produce value for our stockholders. Pursuant to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, among other things, we must complete our initial business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering or liquidate and dissolve. As the end of such time frame nears, our need to consummate an initial business combination with a then-current prospective target business will increase, which may decrease our negotiating power to obtain the best possible deal. In addition, such time restraints may result in limited time to conduct due diligence and, as a result, our due diligence investigation may not be as detailed as would otherwise be the case. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame and are forced to cease operations and ultimately liquidate, the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking our initial business combination. Without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of franchise and income taxes payable and net of up to $2.0 million, subject to adjustment, in interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders would be $9.95, or $0.05 less than the per-unit offering price of $10.00. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and will expire worthless. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait, at a minimum, the full 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering before receiving distributions from the trust account. A stockholder that needs to liquidate its investment, therefore, would have to sell its public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. We have until the date that is 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering to consummate our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within such 21-month period, we will cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, redeem our public shares, and dissolve and liquidate, as described in this Form 10-K. If our plan to redeem our public shares is not consummated for any reason, compliance with Nevada law may require that we submit a plan of dissolution to our then-existing stockholders for approval prior to the distribution of the proceeds held in our trust account. In that case, stockholders may be forced to wait beyond 21 months before they receive the return of their pro rata portion of the proceeds from our trust account. Except for the above redemption, we have no obligation to return funds to stockholders prior to the date of our liquidation unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where stockholders have sought to redeem their shares. 23 Our purchase of common stock in the open market may support the market price of the common stock and/or warrants during the buyback period and, accordingly, the termination of the support provided by such purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock and/or warrants. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, there could be released to us from the trust account amounts necessary to purchase up to 25% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (3,593,750 shares). These purchases could occur at any time commencing after the filing of a preliminary proxy statement for our initial business combination and ending on the record date for the stockholder meeting to approve the initial business combination. Purchases will be made only in open market transactions at times when we are not in possession of material non-public information and will not be made during a restricted period under Regulation M of the Exchange Act. Consequently, if the market does not view our initial business combination positively, these purchases may have the effect of counteracting the market’s view of our initial business combination, which would otherwise be reflected in a decline in the market price of our securities. The termination of the support provided by these purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of our securities. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, we, our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors and their affiliates may elect to purchase shares from stockholders, in which case we or they may influence a vote in favor of a proposed business combination that you do not support. If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules in connection with our business combination, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase shares after the closing of the business combination from stockholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules. Our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors or their affiliates may also purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions. Neither we nor our directors, officers, advisors or their affiliates will make any such purchases when we or they are in possession of any material non-public information not disclosed to the seller. Such a purchase would include a contractual acknowledgement that such stockholder, although still the record holder of our shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that we or our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors or their affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public stockholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. Although we do not currently anticipate paying any premium purchase price for such public shares, in the event we do, the payment of a premium may not be in the best interest of those stockholders not receiving any such additional consideration. In the event we are the buyer in such privately negotiated purchases, we could elect to use trust account proceeds to pay the purchase price in such transactions after the closing of our initial business combination. In addition, in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business combination, we may make purchases of our common stock, in an amount up to 25% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (3,593,750), in the open market in a manner intended to comply with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, using funds held in the trust account so long as the price paid for such shares (inclusive of commissions) does not exceed the per-share amount then held in the trust account (approximately $9.95 per share). 24 The purpose of such purchases would be to increase the likelihood of obtaining stockholder approval of the business combination or, where the purchases are made by our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors or their affiliates, to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash at the closing of the business combination, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of our initial business combination that may not otherwise have been possible. In addition, purchases in the open market would provide liquidity to public stockholders in advance of the closing of our initial business combination. Our purchases of common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions would reduce the funds available to us after our initial business combination, may make it more difficult for us to list our common stock on a national securities exchange, and may have negative economic effects on stockholders from whom we do not purchase common stock in such private or public transactions. If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules in connection with our business combination, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase shares after the closing of the business combination from stockholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules for a per-share pro rata portion of the trust account. In addition, in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business combination, we may make purchases of our common stock, in an amount up to 25% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (3,593,750 shares), in the open market in a manner intended to comply with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, using funds held in the trust account so long as the price paid for such shares does not exceed the per-share amount then held in the trust account (approximately $9.95 per share). As a consequence of such purchases: ·the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after our initial business combination; ·the public “float” of our common stock may be reduced and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, which may make it difficult to obtain the quotation, listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange if we determine to apply for such quotation or listing in connection with the business combination; ·because the stockholders who sell their shares in a privately negotiated transaction or pursuant to open market transactions, as described above, may receive a per-share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of the deferred underwriting commissions or franchise and income taxes payable, our remaining stockholders may bear the entire payment of such deferred commissions and accrued and unpaid taxes (as well as up to $100,000 of net interest that may be released to us from the trust account to fund our dissolution expenses in the event we do not complete our initial business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering). That is, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, the redemption price per share payable to public stockholders who elect to have their shares redeemed will be reduced by a larger percentage of the franchise and income taxes payable than it would have been in the absence of such privately negotiated or open market transactions, and stockholders who do not elect to have their shares redeemed and remain our stockholders after the business combination will bear the economic burden of the entire deferred commissions and a larger percentage of the franchise and income taxes payable; and 25 ·the payment of any premium would result in a reduction in book value per share for the remaining stockholders compared to the value received by stockholders that have their shares purchased by us at a premium. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of our consummation of an initial business combination, and then only in connection with those shares of our common stock that such stockholder properly elected to redeem, subject to the restrictions described in this Form 10-K, and the redemption of our public shares if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. We do not intend to establish an audit committee or a compensation committee until the consummation of an initial business combination. Until such time, no formal committee of independent directors will review matters related to our business, and such lack of review could negatively impact our business. Our board of directors intends to establish an audit committee and a compensation committee upon consummation of an initial business combination. At that time our board of directors intends to adopt charters for these committees. Prior to such time we do not intend to establish either committee. Accordingly, there is no separate committee comprised of some members of our board of directors with specialized accounting and financial knowledge to meet, analyze and discuss solely financial matters concerning prospective target businesses nor is there a separate formal committee to review the reasonableness of expense reimbursement requests by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek such reimbursements. The absence of such committees to review the matters discussed above until the consummation of our initial business combination could negatively impact our operations and profitability. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to stockholders of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because we have stockholders’ equity in excess of $5.0 million and we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect stockholders in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, stockholders will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means our securities will be immediately tradable and we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us and the release of funds to us to purchase up to 25% of our public shares unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. For a more detailed comparison of our offering to offerings that comply with Rule 419, please see “Proposed Business — Comparison of Our Initial Public Offering to Those of Blank Check Companies Subject to Rule 419.” 26 Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, if we are obligated to pay cash for the shares of common stock redeemed and, in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business combination, we make purchases of our common stock in the open market in a manner intended to comply with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act using available funds from the trust account, then the resources available to us for a business combination may be reduced. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account, together with the up to $2.0 million, subject to adjustment, of interest in the trust account (net of franchise and income taxes payable) which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate for the entire 21 month time frame, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. The funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, may not be sufficient to allow us to operate for the entire 21 month time frame, assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. The current low interest rate environment could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our franchise and income taxes and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $1.0 million was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with up to $2.0 million, subject to adjustment, of additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any franchise and income taxes that we may owe. The current low interest rate environment may make it more difficult for us to have sufficient funds available to structure, negotiate or close our initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor or management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our sponsor nor our management team is under any obligation to advance funds to us in such circumstances. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. 27 Subsequent to our consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.95 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers (other than our independent accountants), prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as other claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, our management will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if management believes that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we are unable to complete a business combination within the required time frame, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with a business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the four years following redemption. Accordingly, the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders could be less than the $9.95 per share held in the trust account, including interest but net of any franchise and income taxes payable and less up to $100,000 of such net interest that may be released to us from the trust account to pay dissolution expenses, due to claims of such creditors. Mr. Johnson, our founder and chairman of the board, has agreed that upon our liquidation, he will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amounts in the trust account to below $9.95 per share except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, Mr. Johnson will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. However, we have not asked Mr. Johnson to reserve for such indemnification obligations and we cannot assure you that Mr. Johnson would be able to satisfy those obligations. 28 If the proceeds of the trust account become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, the claims of creditors in such proceeding may have priority over the claims of our stockholders and the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. If we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. Our directors may decide not to enforce Mr. Johnson’s indemnification obligations, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $9.95 per share by claims that are covered by the indemnification obligations of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Johnson asserts that he is unable to satisfy his obligations or that he has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against Mr. Johnson to enforce his indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against Mr. Johnson to enforce his indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $9.95 per share by claims that are covered by the indemnification obligations of Mr. Johnson. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted, including: ·restrictions on the nature of our investments; and ·restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ·registration as an investment company; 29 ·adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ·reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. The proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trustee only in U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act. Because the investment of the proceeds will be restricted to these instruments, we believe we will meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted funds and may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular we are required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them upon redemption of their shares. It is our intention to redeem our public shares as soon as reasonably possible following the 21st month following the completion of our initial public offering in the event we do not consummate an initial business combination by the applicable deadline. The pro rata portion of our trust account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of 100% of our public shares in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination within such 21-month period from the closing of our initial public offering could potentially be considered an unlawful distribution under Nevada law. Under Nevada law, no distribution may be made to stockholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, either (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. NRS 78.300 provides that, in the case of any unlawful distribution, the directors under whose administration the violation occurred are jointly and severally liable, at any time within three years after each violation, to the corporation, and in the event of its dissolution or insolvency, to its creditors at the time of the violation, or any of them, to the lesser of the full amount of the distribution made or of any loss sustained by the corporation by reason of the distribution to stockholders. Such liability, however, does not apply to a director who caused his or her dissent to be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the directors at the time the action was taken or who was not present at the meeting and caused his or her dissent to be entered on learning of the action. While there is no similar provision under the Nevada general corporate statutes providing for stockholder liability in connection with an unlawful distribution, it is possible that stockholders could be liable under Nevada’s Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act for claims by third parties to the extent of any unlawful distributions received by them in a redemption. Any liability of stockholders with respect to an unlawful distribution would likely be limited to the lesser of the amount sought by the third party or the amount unlawfully distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholders would be barred after the fourth anniversary of the distribution. We intend to provide for our payment of all existing and pending claims or claims that may be potentially brought against us within the four years following our dissolution, but cannot assure you that we will be able to properly assess all such claims. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or prospective target businesses. 30 We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after our consummation of a business combination and you will not be entitled to any of the corporate protections provided by such a meeting. We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we consummate a business combination, and thus may not be in compliance with Nevada Revised Statutes, or NRS, 78.330, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of a business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the district court in accordance with NRS 78.345. In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors, thereby exposing it and us to claims of punitive damages. If we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to redeem our public shares for a per-share pro rata portion of the trust account in the event we do not consummate a business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering and distribute the proceeds to our public stockholders, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We have not registered the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants at this time. Although we have agreed to use our best efforts to file a registration statement registering such shares prior to the time the warrants become exercisable, an effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by a public stockholder will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and available and a related registration statement is effective and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. We have not registered the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. However, under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to file a registration statement covering such shares and maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants, except pursuant to cashless exercise provisions in limited circumstances. We will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the registration statement is not effective or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, we will not be required to net cash settle or cash settle the warrant exercise, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. 31 The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to an agreement entered into concurrently with the issuance and sale of the securities in our initial public offering, our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the founder shares, our sponsor and its permitted transferees can demand that we register the sponsor warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the sponsor warrants and holders of warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans may demand that we register such warrants or the common stock issuable upon conversion of such warrants. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the founder shares and the sponsor warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such sponsor warrants. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our initial stockholders are registered. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. However, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. We have no obligation to issue cash, securities or other compensation in exchange for the warrants in the event that we are unable to register the shares underlying the warrants under applicable state securities laws, and the warrants may expire unexercised and unredeemed. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. In such event, holders who acquired their warrants as part of a purchase of units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the shares underlying the units. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. 32 Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete our initial business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate our initial business combination with a company in any industry and are not limited to any particular type of business, except that we will not, under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, be permitted to effect a business combination with another blank check company or a similar type of company with nominal operations. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete our initial business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Although we identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into a business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines. Although we have identified proven track records, strong cash flow characteristics, strong competitive position, experienced management and diversified customer and supplier bases as general criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into our initial business combination will not have all of these attributes. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. If we announce a prospective business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if a stockholder vote is required by law, or we decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain stockholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Unlike many other blank check companies, we are not required to acquire a target with a valuation equal to a certain percentage of the amount held in the trust account. Management’s unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, along with our management’s financial interest in consummating an initial business combination, may lead management to enter into an acquisition agreement that is not in the best interest of our stockholders. Many blank check companies are required to consummate their initial business combination with a target whose value is equal to at least 80% of the amount of money held in the trust account of the blank check company at the time of entry into a definitive agreement for a business combination. Because we do not have the requirement that a target business have a minimum fair market enterprise value equal to a certain percentage of the net assets held in the trust account at the time of our signing a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business combination, we have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Stockholders must rely on management’s ability to identify business combinations, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. In addition, we may consummate a business combination with a target whose enterprise value is significantly less than the amount of money held in the trust account, thereby resulting in our ability to use the remaining funds in the trust account to make additional acquisitions without seeking stockholder approval or providing redemption rights. 33 Management’s unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, along with management’s financial interest in consummating an initial business combination, may lead management to enter into an acquisition agreement that is not in the best interest of our stockholders, which would be the case if we pay too much for the business combination target. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm, and consequently you may have no assurance from an independent source, that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our company from a financial point of view. Unless we consummate our initial business combination with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the price we are paying is fair to our company from a financial point of view. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value and fairness based on standards generally accepted by the financial community. The application of such standards would involve a comparison, from a valuation standpoint, of our business combination target to comparable public companies, as applicable, and a comparison of our contemplated transaction with such business combination target to other then-recently announced comparable private and public company transactions, as applicable. The application of such standards and the basis of the our board of directors’ determination will be discussed and disclosed in our tender offer or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination. We may issue additional common or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination, which would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 250 million shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and one million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. There are approximately 232.0 million authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: ·may significantly dilute the equity interest of existing stockholders; ·may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; ·could cause a change in control if a substantial number of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and ·may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and/or warrants. 34 Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. In addition, in the event we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules in connection with our initial business combination, we may make purchases of our common stock, in an amount up to 25% of the shares sold in our initial public offering, in the open market in a manner intended to comply with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act. If such business combination is not consummated, these purchases would have the effect of reducing the funds available in the trust account for future business combinations. We are dependent upon Mr. Johnson and his loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon our founder and chairman of the board, Mr. Johnson. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Johnson, at least until we have consummated a business combination. In addition, Mr. Johnson is not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, Mr. Johnson. The unexpected loss of the services of Mr. Johnson could have a detrimental effect on us. Our officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may not join us following our initial business combination. The loss of our key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, some or all of the management of the target business may remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. 35 Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with our initial business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will remain in senior management or advisory positions with us. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination. We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect a business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’ management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. The officers and directors of an acquisition target may resign upon consummation of a business combination. The loss of an acquisition target’s key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of an acquisition candidate’s key personnel upon the consummation of a business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate’s management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following a business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. The loss of an acquisition target’s key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. We may in the future hire consultants or advisors on a contingent basis, who would only receive payment in the event a business transaction occurred and, therefore, they might be viewed as having an interest in such business transaction occurring. We may in the future hire consultants or advisors to assist us with our search for a target business or businesses or otherwise advise us in connection with our initial business transaction and any compensation payable to such persons may be contingent upon the closing of our initial business transaction. As a result, such consultants and advisors who provide advice to us would only receive compensation if a business transaction occurred and therefore they might be viewed as having an interest in such business transaction occurring that is different from, or conflicts with, the interests of our public shareholders. 36 Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In order to minimize potential conflicts of interest that may arise from multiple corporate affiliations, each of our officers and Mr. Johnson has agreed, pursuant to a written agreement with us, that until the earliest of our initial business combination, our liquidation or such time as he or she ceases to be an officer or director, to present to us for our consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, any business opportunity with an enterprise value of $100 million or more, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations he or she might have. None of our other independent directors has entered into such an agreement with us. All of our officers and Mr. Johnson currently have certain relevant fiduciary duties or contractual obligations that may take priority over their duties to us. In addition, our officers and directors may become involved with other blank check companies similar to our company, although our officers and Mr. Johnson have agreed not to participate in the formation of, or become an officer or director of, any blank check company until we have entered into a definitive agreement regarding our initial business combination or we have failed to complete our initial business combination within 21 months from the closing of our initial public offering. Our officers or directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor or that a potential target business would not be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary, or financial, interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary, or financial, interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours. We may enter into an initial business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsor, directors or officers, which could create a conflict of interest between our sponsor or such directors or officers, on one hand, and us or our stockholders on the other. We are not prohibited from pursuing an initial business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsor, directors or officers. If we pursue such a business combination, we, or a committee of our independent directors, will obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA that our initial business combination is fair to our company from a financial point of view, but our public stockholders will have no assurance that a different business combination would not have been more profitable. 37 Since our sponsor will lose its entire investment in us if a business combination is not consummated and our officers and directors have significant financial interests in us, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for our initial business combination. In November 2010, our initial stockholders purchased an aggregate of 3,593,750 shares, which we refer to throughout this Form 10-K as the founder shares, for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000, or approximately $0.007 per share. Our initial stockholders collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares. In addition, a portion of the founder shares in an amount equal to 2.5% of our issued and outstanding shares immediately after our initial public offering will be subject to forfeiture by our initial stockholders in the event the last sales price of our stock does not equal or exceed $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period within 12 months following the closing of our initial business combination. An additional 2.5% of our issued and outstanding shares immediately after our initial public offering will be subject to forfeiture by our initial stockholders in the event the last sales price of our stock does not equal or exceed $13.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period between 12 and 24 months following the closing of our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing an initial business combination. Consequently, the discretion of our officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business combination may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular initial business combination are appropriate and in the best interest of our public stockholders. Unlike most blank check companies, our founders and sponsor are not required to vote their founders shares in accordance with the majority of votes cast by our public stockholders. This will result in a greater likelihood that an initial business combination is consummated, compounding this conflict of interest. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete our initial business combination, which may adversely affect our financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders’ investment in us. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Form 10-K to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete our initial business combination. The incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: ·default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; ·acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; ·our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; ·our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; ·our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; 38 ·using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; ·limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; ·increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and ·limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We do not have a maximum debt leverage ratio or a policy with respect to how much debt we may incur. To the extent that the amount of our debt increases, the impact of the negative effects listed above may also increase. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may negatively impact our operations and profitability. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement provided us with approximately $143 million that we may use to complete a business combination. We may effect an initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously. However, we may not be able to effect a business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: ·solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset, or ·dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. We may attempt to simultaneously consummate business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to consummate an initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. 39 We may attempt to consummate our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies. In a business combination with a private company, we would be required to rely on the ability of our management to obtain adequate information about the target and we may have limited ability to conduct due diligence. As a result, we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in our consummation of a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. Furthermore, the relative lack of information about a private company may hinder our ability to properly assess the value of such a company in relation to public company comparables, in which case we may pay too much to acquire a private company in our initial business combination. If we attempt to consummate a business combination with a private company, we may be required to expend substantial sums in order to bring such company into compliance with the various reporting requirements applicable to public companies and/or to prepare required financial statements, and such efforts may harm our operating results or be unsuccessful altogether. A private company target will not be subject to many of the requirements applicable to public companies, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the number and qualifications of a private company’s finance and accounting staff may not be adequate to comply with such requirements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012. Furthermore, we may not have the ability to conduct a formal evaluation of a private company’s internal controls over financial reporting prior to the consummation of a business combination with such company. If a private target company’s finance and accounting staff or internal controls over financial reporting are inadequate, we may be required to hire additional staff and incur substantial legal and accounting costs to address such inadequacies. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our remedial measures will be effective. Any failure to implement required or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or increase our risk of material weaknesses in internal controls. In addition, the federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such statements in time for us to disclose such statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and consummate our initial business combination within our 21-month time frame. 40 We may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business combination. We cannot provide assurance that, upon loss of control of a target business, new management will possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to profitably operate such business. We may structure a business combination to acquire less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but we will only consummate such business combination if RLJ Acquisition, Inc. (or its stockholders if it is not the surviving corporation) will become the controlling stockholder of the target or is otherwise not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Other minority stockholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company’s stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that we will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. We cannot provide assurance that, upon loss of control of a target business, new management will possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to profitably operate such business. Unlike many other blank check companies, we do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which a substantial majority of our stockholders do not agree. Since we have no specified maximum redemption threshold, our structure is different in this respect from the structure that has been used by most blank check companies. Traditionally, blank check companies would not be able to consummate a business combination if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business combination and elected to redeem or convert more than a specified percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold is typically between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business combinations because the number of shares voted by their public stockholders electing conversion exceeded the maximum conversion threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with a business combination. As a result, we may be able to consummate a business combination even though a substantial majority of our public stockholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we hold a stockholder vote to approve our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates. In no event, however, will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our stockholders’ equity to be less than $5,000,001. If we enter into an acquisition agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition to our initial business combination that we maintain a minimum net worth or certain amount of cash that is greater than $5,000,001, we will communicate the details of the closing condition to our public stockholders through our tender offer or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation require us to provide all of our stockholders with an opportunity to redeem all of their shares in connection with the consummation of any initial business combination. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our stockholders’ equity to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in many similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in many similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $12.00 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. 41 In order to effect a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our articles of incorporation or governing instruments in a manner that will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination that our stockholders may not support. In order to effect a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of business combination, increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our charter or governing instruments in order to effect our initial business combination. If we were to conduct any solicitation of our stockholders to amend our amended and restated articles of incorporation, including any solicitation to extend the 21-month period to consummate a business combination, we would conduct the solicitation in compliance with all procedural and disclosure requirements in the United States federal securities laws applicable to companies that have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act and are domestic issuers. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation that relate to our pre-business combination activity may be amended with the approval of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock, which is a lower amendment threshold than that of most blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our articles of incorporation to facilitate the consummation of an initial business combination that our stockholders may not support. Most blank check companies have a provision in their charters that prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions that relate to pre-business combination activity without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s stockholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public stockholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that its provisions related to pre-business combination activity may be amended if approved by holders of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation that govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily than other blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate a business combination with which you do not agree. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our redemption, and our warrants and will expire worthless. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us for a business combination, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect redemption in connection with our initial business combination or the terms of negotiated transactions to purchase shares in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular initial business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 42 Our sponsor controls a substantial interest in us and thus may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support. Our sponsor, which is an entity controlled by Robert L. Johnson, our founder and chairman of the board, own approximately 19% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock assuming it is not required to forfeit its founder earnout shares, as described in this Form 10-K). Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected at each annual meeting of stockholders. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsor, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our sponsor will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Transfer & Stock Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants is unlimited, examples of such adverse amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period, provide for redemption of warrants or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within the 30-trading day period ending on the third business day before we send the notice of such redemption to the warrant holders provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you: 43 ·to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so; ·to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants; or ·to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the sponsor warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 14,375,000 shares of our common stock as part of the units offered in our initial public offering, and we issued in a private placement 6,666,667 sponsor warrants, each exercisable to purchase one share of common stock at $12.00 per share, such that the total amount of the proceeds from our initial public offering and the proceeds of the sale of the sponsor warrants placed in our trust account is approximately $9.95 per unit sold in our initial public offering. The sponsor warrants are identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that, so long as they are held by our sponsor or its permitted transferees: ·they will not be redeemable by us; ·they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the sponsor until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination; and ·they may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis. Although resales of our securities are exempt from state registration requirements, state securities commissioners who view blank check offerings unfavorably may attempt to hinder resales in their states. We offered and sold securities to retail customers only in Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming, where we relied on exemptions from state registration requirements or where we applied to have the securities registered for sale. The definition of an “institutional investor” varies from state to state but generally includes financial institutions, broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other qualified entities. Under the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, the resale of the common stock and warrants are exempt from state registration requirements. However, each state retains jurisdiction to investigate and bring enforcement actions with respect to fraud or deceit, or unlawful conduct by a broker or dealer, in connection with the sale of securities. Although we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict resales of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities commissioners view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the resale of securities of blank check companies in their state. 44 Provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and Nevada law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred shares, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Nevada law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. There may be tax consequences to our business combinations that may adversely affect us. While we expect to undertake any merger or acquisition so as to minimize taxes both to the acquired business and/or asset and us, such business combination might not meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization, or the parties might not obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of shares or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of substantial taxes. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 