D. Risk Factors The following risks relate specifically to our business and should be considered carefully. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks. As a result, the trading price of our ordinary shares and our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, could decline and the holders could lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We are at an early stage in the development of pharmaceutical products and its success is therefore uncertain. At this point we do not have any substantial products that generate significant revenue. For the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2015, we had a net loss of approximately $13.3 million and $32.2 million, respectively. The significant increase in net loss for the year ended June 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to finance costs of $18.4 million incurred in our procurement of funding from the Bergen Global Opportunity Fund, LP for our acquisition of Immutep SA, a French privately owned and venture capital backed company. In addition, since the year ended June 30, 2013, our total other income has continued to decrease. For the year ended June 30, 2013, total other income was approximately $4.0 million. For the year ended June 30, 2014, total other income was approximately $3.1 million, with such decrease being primarily attributable to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. For the year ended June 30, 2015, total other income was approximately $2.1 million, with such decrease being primarily attributable to a decrease in grant income. Other income comprises license income, grants received, foreign exchange gains and interest income. We will continue to incur losses from operations and expects the costs of drug development to increase in the future as more patients are recruited to the planned trials. In particular, we will continue to incur significant losses in carrying out clinical trials of IMP321 necessary for regulatory approval and ongoing research in terms of immunotherapy product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development, manufacturing, sales and marketing of therapeutic products, we may experience larger than expected future losses and may never become profitable. There is a substantial risk that we or our development partners may not be able to complete the development of our current product candidates or develop other pharmaceutical products. It is possible that none of them will be successfully commercialised, which would prevent us from ever achieving profitability. While the decision to consolidate the CVac clinical trial program and to cease the patient recruitment has led to a significant decrease of costs, the clinical trial program of IMP321 will generate new expenses, especially once clinical trials have been started. There can also be no guarantee that CVac will successfully be partnered or ever generate future revenues or that the cell therapy related logistics and manufacturing platform will be successfully commercialised. 3 Table of Contents We have no medicinal products approved for commercial sale and no source of material revenue. Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale and to date have not generated material revenue from product sales. We are largely dependent on the success of our product candidates, especially the LAG-3 related ones. The LAG 3 product candidates were acquired by us through the acquisition of the French privately owned and venture capital backed company Immutep SA, a biopharmaceutical company in the rapidly growing field of Immuno-Oncology, in December 2014. This acquisition significantly expanded Prima’s clinical development product portfolio to other categories of immunotherapies. It has also provided Prima with partnerships with several of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies. Immutep has three products candidates in development. They are based on a specific target called lymphocyte activation gene 3 or LAG-3, which is involved in the regulation of T cells in immune responses. Two of those products are fully partnered with Novartis and GSK. Their most advanced product candidate, IMP321, will be developed by the Prima group for commercialisation in the world’s major markets. IMP321 is a recombinant protein that could be used in conjunction with chemotherapy to amplify a patient’s immune response. The development and manufacturing of IMP321 is being conducted in conjunction with Eddingpharm, which has licenced the rights for IMP321 for China and Taiwan. Immutep’s other products include IMP701, an antagonist antibody that acts to stimulate T cell proliferation in cancer patients, licensed to CoStim (Novartis) and IMP731, a depleting antibody that removes T cells involved in autoimmunity, licensed to GSK. In addition to these products Immutep also has a dedicated R&D laboratory outside Paris with other research candidates in development. Immutep also currently generates modest revenues from sales of LAG-3 research reagents. After having expended significant efforts in the development of CVac, we have recently prioritized our efforts to develop the IMP321 compound. There can be no assurance that our ability to develop either product candidate, or any other product candidate, will be successful or our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals with respect to any of the foregoing will be successful. We anticipate that as the clinical trials for IMP321 progress and associated costs increase, we will require additional funds to achieve our long-term goals of commercialisation and further development of IMP321 and other product candidates. In addition, we will require funds to pursue regulatory applications, defend intellectual property rights, increase manufacturing capacity, develop marketing and sales capability and fund operating expenses. We intend to seek such additional funding through public or private financings and/or through licensing of our assets or other arrangements with corporate partners. However, such financing, licensing opportunities or other arrangements may not be available from any sources on acceptable terms, or at all. Any shortfall in funding could result in us having to curtail or cease our operations including research and development activities, thereby harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate product revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • successfully complete clinical development of, and receive regulatory approval for, our product candidates; • set an acceptable price for our products, if approved, and obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors; • obtain commercial quantities of our products, if approved, at acceptable cost levels; and • successfully market and sell our products, if approved. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product candidate development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our expenses could increase beyond current expectations if the applicable regulatory authorities require further studies in addition to those currently anticipated and even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with the commercial launch of such products and there can be no guarantee that we will ever generate significant revenues. We may require additional financing and may be unable to raise sufficient capital, which could have a material impact on our research and development programs or commercialisation of our products or product candidates. We have historically devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including pre-clinical and clinical development activities. To date, we have financed a significant amount of our operations through public and private financings. The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financings or strategic collaborations. The amount of such future net losses, as well as the possibility of future profitability, will also depend on our success in developing and commercialising products that generate significant revenue. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the value of our ordinary shares or ADSs and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or even continue our operations. 4 Table of Contents We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially for the foreseeable future if, and as, we: • continue our research and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates; • expand the scope of our current proposed clinical studies for our product candidates; • initiate additional preclinical, clinical or other studies for our product candidates; • change or add additional manufacturers or suppliers; • seek regulatory and marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical studies; • seek to identify and validate additional product candidates; • acquire or in-licences other product candidates and technologies; • maintain, protect and expand our intellectual property portfolio; • attract and retain skilled personnel; • create additional infrastructure to support our operations as a publicly quoted company and our product development and planned future commercialisation efforts; • add an internal sales force; and • experience any delays or encounters issues with any of the above. Until our products become commercially available, we will need to obtain additional funding in connection with the further development of our products and product candidates. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. As such, additional financing may not be available to us when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialisation efforts or obtain funds by entering agreements on unattractive terms. Our resource allocation decisions and the elimination of development programs may result in the failure to capitalise on profitable market opportunities. Furthermore, any additional equity fundraising in the capital markets may be dilutive for stockholders and any debt-based funding may bind us to restrictive covenants and curb our operating activities and ability to pay potential future dividends even when profitable. We cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we will be prevented from pursuing research and development efforts. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the price of our common stock to fall. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our operations, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to third parties to develop and market products or product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. For example, additional strategic collaborations could require us to share commercial rights to our product candidates with third parties in ways that we do not intend currently or on terms that may not be favourable to us. Moreover, we may also have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expected at the time of the Immutep acquisition. Any failure to implement our business strategy with respect to the Immutep acquisition could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We completed our acquisition of Immutep, in December 2014 for consideration of up to US$28m in cash and stock. We have partially completed the integration of Immutep’s business into our own. We have not yet achieved, and may never achieve, the full benefit of the clinical development expectations, product portfolio enhancements or revenue generations we expected at the time of the acquisition. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may be unable to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, there may be unexpected costs incurred in integrating Immutep, increases in other expenses, or problems in the business unrelated to the Immutep acquisition that have a negative effect on our business. If the integration is not successful, or if we fail to implement our business strategy with respect to the acquisition, we may be unable to achieve expected results and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Specific risks associated with the remaining integration include the following: • the potential loss of licensors, licensees, other business partners or independent contractors; • failure to effectively continue the clinical trials or integrate Immutep’s product portfolio with ours; • failure to effectively consolidate functional areas, which may be impeded by inconsistencies in, or conflicts between, standards, controls, procedures, policies, business cultures and compensation structures; • potential future impairment charges, write-offs, write-downs or restructuring charges that could adversely affect our results of operations; 5 Table of Contents • significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; • exposure to unknown liabilities or other obligations of Immutep, which may include matters relating to employment, labor and employee benefits, litigation, accident claims and environmental issues, and which may affect our ability to comply with applicable laws; • the coordination of resources across broad geographical areas; and • the challenges of moving toward a single brand and market identity. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Immutep was our only significant acquisition in the recent history of Prima. Identifying strategic acquisitions is part of our business plan and may become an increasingly important part of our growth. There is, however, no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any additional acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities, incurring indebtedness and/or incurring large one-time expenses. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company’s operations, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ongoing and future clinical trials of product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain requisite regulatory approvals for commercial sale. Phase I and Phase II clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a product candidate but rather to test safety and to understand the product candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that later large-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. Further, Phase III clinical trials may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approval for marketing. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could require that the clinical trial be redone or terminated. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval by applicable regulatory authorities may also vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate involved, as well as other factors. If we suffer any significant delays, setbacks or negative results in, or termination of, our clinical trials, it may be unable to continue the development of our products or product candidates or generate revenue and our business may be severely harmed. If we do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals we will be unable to commercialise our products. The clinical development, manufacturing, sales and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by regulatory authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia and elsewhere. Despite the substantial time and expense invested in preparation and submission of a Biologic License Application or equivalents in other jurisdictions, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number, size and design of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition for which the product is intended to be used and the regulations and guidance documents applicable to any particular product. The FDA or other regulators can delay, limit or deny approval of a product for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the fact that regulators may not approve our or a third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities or that new laws may be enacted or regulators may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations requiring new or different evidence of safety and efficacy for the intended use of a product. IMP321 will undergo clinical trials; however, successful results in the trials and in the subsequent application for marketing approval are not guaranteed. Currently it is planned that the clinical development of CVac will only continue provided that a partnering transaction can be secured. Without additional clinical trials CVac and any other product in the current portfolio cannot obtain a regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals, we will not be able to generate revenue from this product. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any product candidate, our profitability will depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of those product candidates or the licensing of our technology. 6 Table of Contents Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, it may still face development and regulatory difficulties that may delay or impair future sales of product candidates. Even if we or our licensing partners receive regulatory approval to sell IMP321 or any other product candidate, the relevant regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, manufacturing, labelling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. Previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, new statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We have limited manufacturing experience with our product candidates. We have no manufacturing capabilities and is dependent on third parties for the development of cost effective manufacture and manufacturing process for the company’s product candidates. Problems with third party manufacturers or the manufacturing process, or the scaling up of manufacturing activities as such may delay clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates. Biological product candidates like CVac, IMP731, IMP701 or IMP321 usually have more complicated manufacturing procedures than chemically produced therapies. The change of manufacturing partners, manufacturing process changes or changes of other nature could impact the product quality and affect the comparability of different product batches. A lack of comparability could significantly impact the development timelines and could even lead to a situation where regulatory bodies require additional or new pre-clinical or clinical development. The clinical development of autologous dendritic cell cancer vaccines such as CVac is complex and more costly to produce than most other biologicals such as IMP321. Biologicals like IMP321 offer greater commercial potential based on cost of goods alone. Hence, we decided to focus our clinical trial resources internally on developing IMP 321 whilst seeking a partner to develop CVac. With our repositioning of the CVac program, the manufacturing uncertainties surrounding CVac will transfer to a new partner should one be secured. Successful approval of CVac by regulatory authorities and the manufacturing of CVac will therefore be beyond the control of Prima. Any revenues from sales of CVac will be dependent on the success of the collaboration partner. In principle the same applies to IMP731 and IMP701 or any other partnered product candidate. To the extent we rely significantly on contractors, we will be exposed to risks related to the business and operational conditions of our contractors. We are a small company, with few internal staff and limited facilities. We are and will be required to rely on a variety of contractors to manufacture and transport our products, to perform clinical testing and to prepare regulatory dossiers. Adverse events that affect one or more of our contractors could adversely affect us, such as: • a contractor is unable to retain key staff that have been working on our product candidates; • a contractor is unable to sustain operations due to financial or other business issues; • a contractor loses their permits or licenses that may be required to manufacture our products or product candidates; or • errors, negligence or misconduct that occur within a contractor may adversely affect our business. We depend on, and will continue to depend on, collaboration and strategic alliances with third partners. To the extent we are able to enter into collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances, we will be exposed to risks related to those collaborations and alliances. An important element of our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercialising our product candidates is entering into partnerships and strategic alliances with other pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants. For example, we currently have material collaborative arrangements with Eddingpharm for the development of IMP321 for China and Taiwan. Any partnerships or alliance we have or may have in the future may be terminated for reasons beyond our control or we may not be able to negotiate future alliances on acceptable terms, if at all. These arrangements may result in us receiving less revenue than if it sold its products directly, may place the development, sales and marketing of its products outside of its control, may require it to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on unfavourable terms. Collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances will also subject us to a number of risks, including the risk that: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partner/collaborators may devote to the product candidates; 7 Table of Contents • strategic partner/collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • the failure to successfully collaborate with third parties may delay, prevent or otherwise impair the development or commercialization of our product candidates or revenue expectations; • products being developed by partners/collaborators may never reach commercial stage resulting in reduced or even no milestone or royalty payments; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete their obligations under any arrangement; • a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing product candidates. Our research and development efforts will be jeopardised if we are unable to retain key personnel and cultivate key academic and scientific collaborations. Our success depends largely on the continued services of our senior management and key scientific personnel and on the efforts and abilities of our senior management to execute our business plan. During the fiscal year ended June 20, 2015, we experienced significant changes in our senior management team with Mr. Marc Voigt becoming our Chief Executive Officer in July 2014 and Prof. Dr. Frédéric Triebel becoming our Chief Scientific Officer and Chief Medical Officer in December 2014, as a result of our acquisition of Immutep. Additionally, as a consequence of our decision to cease recruitment into all ongoing CVac studies and strategic redirection towards our LAG-3 portfolio, Dr. Sharron Gargosky, our Chief Technical Officer and past CVac program manager will cease to be employed by us effective 30 November 2015. Changes in our senior management may be disruptive to our business and may adversely affect our operations. For example, when we have changes in senior management positions, we may elect to adopt different business strategies or plans. Any new strategies or plans, if adopted, may not be successful and if any new strategies or plans do not produce the desired results, our business may suffer. For all new employees, including senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as recent additions or hires are trained or otherwise assimilate and adapt to our organization and culture. The significant turnover in our senior management team during fiscal year 2015 may make it difficult to attract new employees and retain existing employees. These changes may also make it difficult to execute on our business plan and achieve our planned financial results. Moreover, competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense and as such we may not be able to attract and retain personnel critical to our success. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with clinicians, scientists and leading academic and health institutions. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our product development and commercialisation activities. Research and development efforts will be jeopardised if we are unable to secure critical components and reagents necessary for manufacture of key components of our product candidates. Problems with third party supply (e.g. critical material) may delay clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates. 8 Table of Contents Future potential sales of our products may suffer if they are not accepted in the marketplace by physicians, patients and the medical community. There is a risk that IMP321 may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, even if they are approved by the regulatory authorities. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a variety of factors, including: • timing of market introduction, number and clinical profile of competitive products; 9 Table of Contents • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy and our ability to secure the support of key clinicians and physicians for our products; • cost-effectiveness compared to existing and new treatments; • availability of coverage, reimbursement and adequate payment from health maintenance organizations and other third-party payers; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and • other advantages over other treatment methods. Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community may be unwilling to accept, use or recommend our products which would adversely affect our potential revenues and future profitability. If healthcare insurers and other organizations do not pay for our products or impose limits on reimbursement, our future business may suffer. Our product candidate may be rejected by the market due to many factors, including cost. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce healthcare costs may affect our future revenues and profitability. In Australia and certain foreign markets the pricing of pharmaceutical products is already subject to government control. We expect initiatives for similar government control to continue in the United States and elsewhere. The adoption of any such legislative or regulatory proposals could harm our business and prospects. Successful commercialization of our product candidate will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Our product candidate may not be considered cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and treatment. If third party coverage is not available for our products the market acceptance of these products will be reduced. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products, which could result in product revenues lower than anticipated. If the price for our product candidate decreases or if governmental and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels our potential revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. We are currently taking advantage of certain exemptions from having to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act due to our status as an “emerging growth company”. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Accordingly, this allows us to postpone the date by which we must comply with some of the laws and regulations that are otherwise applicable to public companies and to reduce the amount of information we provide in our reports filed with the SEC, which could undermine investor confidence in our company and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company,” we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” which may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected. Similarly, so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” we may elect not to provide investors with certain information, including certain financial information and certain information regarding compensation of our executive officers, that we would otherwise have been required to provide in filings we make with the SEC, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our company. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We would cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of: (i) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; (ii) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues are $1 billion or more; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our ordinary shares or ADSs held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. 10 Table of Contents We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares or ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares or ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for such shares, and our stock price may be more volatile and may decline. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology. Any future success will depend in large part on whether we can obtain and maintain patents to protect our own products and technologies; obtain licenses to the patented technologies of third parties; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Biotechnology patent matters can involve complex legal and scientific questions, and it is impossible to predict the outcome of biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent claims. Any of our future patent applications may not be approved, or we may not develop additional products or processes that are patentable. Some countries in which we may sell our product candidate or license our intellectual property may fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the protection that may be afforded in the United States or Australia. Some legal principles remain unresolved and there has not been a consistent policy regarding the breadth or interpretation of claims allowed in patents in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia or elsewhere. In addition, the specific content of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union or elsewhere may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if we are able to obtain patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. Moreover, any of our pending applications may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, the European Patent Office, or EPO, the Australian Patent and Trademark Office and/or any patents issuing thereon may become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings or litigation, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, and allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to exploit our intellectual property or develop or commercialize current or future product candidate. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to the inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S., the EU, Australia and elsewhere. Such challenges may result in loss of ownership or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity that we obtain under applicable legislation, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Such developments could enable other companies to circumvent our intellectual property rights and use our clinical trial data to obtain marketing authorizations in the EU, Australia and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain our patents. Intellectual property rights of third parties could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, such that we could be required to litigate with or obtain licenses from third parties in order to develop or market our products. Such litigation or licenses could be costly or not available on commercially reasonable terms. Our commercial success may somewhat depend upon our future ability and the ability of our potential collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing valid intellectual property rights of third parties. If a third-party intellectual property right exists that requires the pursuit of litigation or administrative proceedings to nullify or invalidate the third-party intellectual property right concerned, or enter into a license agreement with the intellectual property right holder, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 11 Table of Contents Third-party intellectual property right holders, including our competitors, may bring infringement claims against us. We may not be able to successfully settle or otherwise resolve such infringement claims. If we are unable to successfully settle future claims or otherwise resolve such claims on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to engage in or continue costly, unpredictable and time-consuming litigation and may be prevented from, or experience substantial delays in, marketing our product candidate. If we fail to settle or otherwise resolve any such dispute, in addition to being forced to pay damages, we or our potential collaborators may be prohibited from commercializing any product candidates we may develop that are held to be infringing, for the duration of the patent term. We might, if possible, also be forced to redesign our formulations so that we no longer infringe such third-party intellectual property rights. Any of these events, even if we were ultimately to prevail, could require us to divert substantial financial and management resources that we would otherwise be able to devote to our business. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase costs or prevent it from the commercialisation of product candidates. There is a risk that we are, or may in the future, infringe proprietary rights of third parties. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. To date, we have not been involved in any such third-party claims and, except as noted below, we are not aware that our product candidates infringe, or may in the future infringe, the intellectual property rights of any third party. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might be: • prohibited from selling or licensing any product candidate that we may develop unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us; • required to expend considerable amounts of money in defending the claim; • required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; • required to redesign the formulation of a product so that it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time; or • required to pay substantial monetary damages. To mitigate this risk, we have a patent strategy and monopoly around many of the technical areas we operate in with little room for others to achieve freedom to operate. From time to time we engage the advice of patent counsel to conduct checks on the freedom to operate position of our business with respect to claims protecting our product development candidates and our clinical and manufacturing strategies. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect and defend our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file claims, and any related litigation and/or prosecution of such claims can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid in whole or in part, unenforceable, or construe the patent’s claims narrowly allowing the other party to commercialize competing products on the grounds that our patents do not cover such products. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. The effects of patent litigation or other proceedings could therefore have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. 12 Table of Contents Confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, advisors and consultants may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and protect other proprietary information. We consider proprietary trade secrets and/or confidential know-how and unpatented know-how to be important to our business. We may rely on trade secrets and/or confidential know-how to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is believed by us to be of limited value. However, trade secrets and/or confidential know-how can be difficult to maintain as confidential. To protect this type of information against disclosure or appropriation by competitors, our policy is to require our employees, advisors and consultants to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with us. However, current or former employees, advisors and consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third-party obtained illegally and is using trade secrets and/or confidential know-how is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. The enforceability of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secrets and/or confidential know-how trade protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and may even apply for patent protection in respect of the same. If successful in obtaining such patent protection, our competitors could limit our use of our trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. If we are unable to keep pace with technological change or with the advances of our competitors, our technology and products may become non-competitive. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our product candidates may be or become uncompetitive. To remain competitive, we must employ and retain suitably qualified staff that are continuously educated to keep pace with changing technology, but may not be in a position to do so. Intellectual property rights do not address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative: • Others may be able to make products that are similar to IMP321 but that are not covered by our intellectual property rights. • Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or otherwise circumvent any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights. • We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to conceive and reduce to practice the inventions covered by the patents or patent applications that we own, license or will own or license. • We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of the patents or patent applications that we or they own or have obtained a license, or will own or will have obtained a license. • It is possible that any pending patent applications that we have filed, or will file, will not lead to issued patents. • Issued patents that we own may not provide us with any competitive advantage, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors. • Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights, or in countries where research and development safe harbor laws exist, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets. • Ownership of our patents or patent applications may be challenged by third parties. • The patents of third parties or pending or future applications of third parties, if issued, may have an adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents If healthcare insurers and other organisations do not pay for our products or product candidates or impose limits on reimbursement, our future business may suffer. Our product candidates may be rejected by the market due to many factors, including cost. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce healthcare costs may affect our future revenues and profitability. In Australia and certain foreign markets the pricing of pharmaceutical products is already subject to government control. Successful commercialisation of our product candidates will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organisations. Our product candidates may not be considered cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and treatment. If third party coverage is not available for our products, the market acceptance of these products will be reduced. We may be exposed to product liability claims which could harm our business. The testing, marketing and sale of therapeutic products entails an inherent risk of product liability. We may face product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials. If any of our products are approved for sale, we may face exposure to claims by an even greater number of persons than were involved in the clinical trials once marketing, distribution and sales of our products begin. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products and product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients and others; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialise products and product candidates. We rely on a number of third party researchers and contractors to produce, collect, and analyse data regarding the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. We have quality control and quality assurance in place to mitigate these risks, as well as professional liability and clinical trial insurance to cover financial damages in the event that human testing is done incorrectly or the data is analysed incorrectly. If a claim is made against us in conjunction with these research testing activities, the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be negatively affected. We could also face additional liability beyond insurance limits if testing mistakes were to endanger any human subjects. Changes in patent laws or patent jurisprudence could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products or product candidate. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and exploiting patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and exploiting biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Such examples include: • Nautilus, Inc. v. Biosig Instruments, Inc. (2014), where the Court imposed a stricter requirement for clarity of claim language than previously applied by the Federal Circuit, thereby making it easier to invalidate patents for insufficiently apprising the public of the scope of the invention. • Limelight Networks, Inc. v. Akamai Technologies, Inc. (2014), where the Court articulated a standard for inducement of infringement that makes it more difficult to establish liability for inducing infringement of a multi-step method claim that is performed by multiple parties. 14 Table of Contents • Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc. (2013), where the Court held that isolated naturally-occurring DNA is patent ineligible subject matter. • KSR v. Teleflex (2007), where the Court decided unanimously that the Federal Circuit Court had been wrong in taking a narrow view of when an invention is “obvious” and thus cannot be patented. • EBay Inc. v. MercExchange, LLC (2006), where the Court heightened the standard for an injunction after a finding of patent infringement. • Merck KGgA v. Integra Lifesciences (2004), where the Court adopted an expansive interpretation of the activities associated with regulatory approval exempt from patent infringement. In addition, the America Invents Act, or AIA, has been recently enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. patent system. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, the combination of the U.S. Supreme Court decisions and AIA has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. A few highlights of changes to U.S. patent law under the AIA are: • Under the AIA, a patent is awarded to the “first-inventor-to-file” rather than the first to invent. • There is a new definition of prior art which removes geographic and language boundaries found in the pre-AIA law. At the same time, certain categories of “secret” prior art have been eliminated. • The AIA introduced new procedures for challenging the validity of issued patents: post-grant review and inter partes review. • Patent owners under the AIA may now request supplemental examination of a patent to consider, reconsider, or correct information believed to be relevant to the patent. • The AIA allows third parties to submit any patent, published application, or publication relevant to examination of a pending patent application with a concise explanation for inclusion during prosecution of the patent application. The “first-inventor-to-file” system and the new definitions of prior art apply to U.S. patent applications with claims having an effective filing date on or after March 16, 2013. Until at least 2034, patent practice will involve both pre-AIA and AIA laws. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to exploit our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Similarly, the complexity and uncertainty of European patent laws has also increased in recent years. In addition, the European patent system is relatively stringent in the type of amendments that are allowed during prosecution. Changes in patent law or patent jurisprudence could limit our ability to obtain new patents in the future that may be important for our business. We may face difficulties with protecting our intellectual property in certain jurisdictions, which may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights in those jurisdictions. The laws of some jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the U.S. and the EU, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in such jurisdictions. If we or our collaboration partners encounter difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, the intellectual property rights important for our business in such jurisdictions, the value of these rights may be diminished and we may face additional competition from others in those jurisdictions. Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile and could decline significantly. The market price of our ordinary shares historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us, to changes in analysts’ recommendations and earnings estimates, to arbitrage between our Australian listed shares and our ADSs, to changes in exchange rates, or to factors affecting the biopharmaceutical industry or the securities markets in general. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our securities. For example, during the last two fiscal years, the market price for our ordinary shares on the Australian Securities Exchange has ranged from as low as A$0.02 to a high of A$0.19. We may experience a material decline in the market price of our shares, regardless of our operating performance. Therefore, a holder of our ordinary shares or ADSs may not be able to sell those ordinary shares or ADSs at or above the price paid by such holder for such shares or ADSs. Price declines in our ordinary shares or ADSs could result from a variety of factors, including many outside our control. These factors include: • the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical trials by us and our competitors; • unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects resulting from the clinical trials or the commercial use of our product candidate; • regulatory actions in respect of any of our products or the products of any of our competitors; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • market conditions, including market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • increases in our costs or decreases in our revenues due to unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • developments or litigation concerning patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies; and • developments concerning current or future strategic alliances or acquisitions. We may be a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) which would subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Holders of our ADSs who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we are currently a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to a “U.S. Holder” of our ADRs and reduce the value of our ADSs. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. 16 Table of Contents The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and the value of our assets. Therefore, it is possible that we could be a PFIC in the current year as well as in future years. If we are classified as a PFIC in any year that a U.S. Holder owns ADSs, the U.S. Holder will generally continue to be treated as holding ADSs of a PFIC in all subsequent years, notwithstanding that we are not classified as a PFIC in a subsequent year. Dividends received by the U.S. Holder and gains realized from the sale of our ADSs would be taxed as ordinary income and subject to an interest charge. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors about the application of the PFIC rules and certain elections that may help to minimize adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences in their particular circumstances. We have never paid a dividend and we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future which means that holders of shares and ADSs may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. To date, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Dividends may only be paid out of our profits. Payment of cash dividends, if any, in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Our holders of shares and ADSs may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the ADSs relative to the price of our ordinary shares. The price of our ordinary shares is quoted in Australian dollars and the price of our ADSs will be quoted in U.S. dollars. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the price of our ordinary shares. In the last two years, the Australian dollar has as a general trend appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Any continuation of this trend may positively affect the U.S. dollar price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, this trend may not continue and may be reversed. If the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ADSs could decline, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention and if we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file certain reports with respect to our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, beginning with fiscal year ended on June 30, 2013, we have performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have in prior fiscal years identified material weaknesses that have been remediated. If we identify material weaknesses in future periods or we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our reported financial results could be restated, we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, and the market price of our stock could decline. Our ordinary shares are listed on three separate stock markets and investors seeking to take advantage of price differences between such markets may create unexpected volatility in our share price; in addition, investors may not be able to easily move shares for trading between such markets. 17 Table of Contents Our ordinary shares are listed and traded on the ASX, NASDAQ and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Price levels for our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly on either market, independent of our share price on the other market. Investors could seek to sell or buy our shares to take advantage of any price differences between the three markets through a practice referred to as arbitrage. Any arbitrage activity could create unexpected volatility in our share prices on either exchange and the volumes of shares available for trading on either exchange. In addition, holders of shares in either jurisdiction will not be immediately able to transfer such shares for trading on the other markets without effecting necessary procedures with our transfer agent. This could result in time delays and additional cost for our shareholders. Further, if we are unable to continue to meet the regulatory requirements for listing on the ASX, NASDAQ or the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, we may lose our listing on any of these exchanges, which could impair the liquidity of our shares. Risks Relating to Our Location in Australia Currency fluctuations may expose us to increased costs and revenue decreases. Our business is affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Currency fluctuations could, therefore, cause our costs to increase and revenues to decline. Our expenses will be denominated in Australian dollars, U.S. dollars and European euro. Last year, the Australian dollar has, as a general trend, depreciated against the U.S. dollar and European euro, whereas two years ago, the Australian dollar had appreciated against the U.S. dollar and European Euro. We conduct clinical trials in many different countries and we have manufacturing of our product candidate undertaken outside of Australia, which exposes us to potential cost increases resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. In fiscal 2015, we made foreign exchange gains as a result of currency fluctuations of A$0.5 million. In fiscal 2014, we made foreign exchange gains as a result of currency fluctuations of A$0.4 million. In fiscal 2013 our foreign exchange gain was A$1.4 million. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Amongst other things, we are subject to the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth of Australia). Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares (including through the acquisition of ADSs) if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s or someone else’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Exceptions to the general prohibition include circumstances where the person makes a formal takeover bid for us, if the person obtains shareholder approval for the acquisition or if the person acquires less than 3% of the voting power of us in any rolling six month period. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our shares. Rights as a holder of ordinary shares are governed by Australian law and our Constitution and may differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. Holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may have difficulty in effecting service of process in the United States or enforcing judgments obtained in the United States. We are a public company incorporated under the laws of Australia. Therefore, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Australian law and our Constitution. These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. The rights of holders of ADSs are affected by Australian law and our Constitution but are governed by U.S. law. Circumstances that under U.S. law may entitle a shareholder in a U.S. company to claim damages may also give rise to a cause of action under Australian law entitling a shareholder in an Australian company to claim damages. However, this will not always be the case. Holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may have difficulties enforcing, in actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the U.S., liabilities under U.S. securities laws. In particular, if such a holder sought to bring proceedings in Australia based on U.S. securities laws, the Australian court might consider: • that it did not have jurisdiction; and/or • that it was not an appropriate forum for such proceedings; and/or • that, applying Australian conflict of laws rule, U.S. law (including U.S. securities laws) did not apply to the relationship between holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs and us or our directors and officers; and/or • that the U.S. securities laws were of a public or penal nature and should not be enforced by the Australian court. Holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may also have difficulties enforcing in courts outside the U.S. judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against any of our directors and executive officers or us, including actions under the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. 18 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As an Australian company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process, compensation of officers and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow Australian law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. As a foreign private issuer that has elected to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements, we have submitted to NASDAQ a written statement from our independent counsel certifying that our practices are not prohibited by Australian laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in Annual Reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Please see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees – C. Board Practices” for further information. Risks Related to an Investment in Our ADSs Our ADS holders are not shareholders and do not have the same rights as our shareholders. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, registers and delivers our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. Our ADS holders will not be treated as shareholders and do not have the rights of shareholders. The depositary will be the holder of the shares underlying our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs will have ADS holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and our ADS holders, and the beneficial owners of ADSs, sets out ADS holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADSs. For a description of ADS holder rights, see “Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities – D. American Depositary Shares.” Our shareholders have shareholder rights. Australian law and our constitution govern shareholder rights. For a description of our shareholders’ rights, see “Item 10. Additional Information – B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Our ADS holders do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. Shareholders are entitled to our notices of general meetings and to attend and vote at our general meetings of shareholders. At a general meeting, every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote on a show of hands. Every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote per fully paid ordinary share on a poll. This is subject to any other rights or restrictions which may be attached to any shares. ADS holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, ADS holders vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of instructions, the depositary will try to vote in accordance with those instructions. Otherwise, ADS holders will not be able to vote unless they withdraw the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs. ADS holders may not learn of ordinary shareholders’ meetings in time to instruct the depositary or withdraw underlying ordinary shares. If we ask for our ADS holders’ instructions, the depositary will notify our ADS holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials and form of notice to them. The depositary will try, as far as practical, subject to Australian law and the provisions of the depositary agreement, to vote the shares as our ADS holders instruct. The depositary will not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions of the ADS holders. We cannot assure our ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. This means that there is a risk that our ADS holders may not be able to exercise voting rights and there may be nothing they can do if their shares are not voted as they requested. Our ADS holders do not have the same rights to receive dividends or other distributions as our shareholders. Subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to a share, the directors may determine that a dividend will be payable on a share and fix the amount, the time for payment and the method for payment (although we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future). Dividends may be paid on shares of one class but not another and at different rates for different classes. Dividends and other distributions payable to our shareholders with respect to our ordinary shares generally will be payable directly to them. Any dividends or distributions payable with respect to ordinary shares will be paid to the depositary, which has agreed to pay to our ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities, after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of shares their ADSs represent. In addition, there may be certain circumstances in which the depositary may not pay to our ADS holders amounts distributed by us as a dividend or distribution. 19 Table of Contents There are circumstances where it may be unlawful or impractical to make distributions to the holders of our ADSs. The deposit agreement with the depositary generally requires the depositary to convert foreign currency it receives in respect of deposited securities into U.S. dollars and distribute the U.S. dollars to ADS holders, provided the depositary can do so on a reasonable basis. If it does not convert foreign currency, the depositary may distribute the foreign currency only to those ADS holders to whom it is possible to do so. If a distribution is payable by us in Australian dollars, the depositary will hold the foreign currency it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. It will not invest the foreign currency and it will not be liable for any interest. If the exchange rates fluctuate during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, our ADS holders may lose some of the value of the distribution. The depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any ADS holders. This means that our ADS holders may not receive the distributions we make on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. Nasdaq may delist our ADSs from trading on the exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our ADSs and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We may in the future fail to comply with the Nasdaq Global Market regulations and listing requirements as to minimum stockholders’ equity, minimum market value, minimum total assets and revenue, minimum bid price, minimum public float and other requirements (the “Nasdaq Listing Requirements”), and as a result Nasdaq may initiate procedures to delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Global Market. In the past 52-weeks, our ADSs have been trading in a range from $0.42 to $6.48 per share, and the longest period below $1.00 was for 129 business days from November 12, 2014 through May 19, 2015, inclusive. Under Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) (the “Rule”), any company whose shares have a closing bid price less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days may be subject to a delisting proceeding by Nasdaq. On December 23, 2014, we received a deficiency letter from NASDAQ that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) for failing to have a bid price for our ADS of at least US$1.00 per share for the prior thirty trading days. Our share price rose significantly in May 2015 following some positive market announcements released by us, including the securing of A$15m in funding from a sophisticated US investor and positive overall survival benefit data for CVac. On June 3, 2015, we received a letter from NASDAQ advising that as the bid price for our ADS had risen above US$1.00 for the required period of time, we had regained compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) and the matter was closed. See “Item 4.A—Fiscal 2014.” If we fail to meet the continued listing criteria under the Rule or any of the Nasdaq Listing Requirements, our ordinary shares may be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our ADSs. If a delisting of our ADSs were to occur, such shares may trade in the over-the-counter market such as on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. The over-the-counter market is generally considered to be a less efficient market, and this could diminish investors’ interest in our ADSs as well as significantly impact the price and liquidity of our ADSs. Any such delisting may also severely complicate trading of our ADSs by our shareholders, or prevent them from re-selling their ADSs at/or above the price they paid. Furthermore, our relatively low trading volume on the Nasdaq Global Market may make it difficult for shareholders to trade ADSs or initiate any other transactions. Delisting may also make it more difficult for us to issue additional securities or secure additional financing. 