Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a development stage company with no operating history. Accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business in the financial services industry (excluding depository institutions). We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of an initial business combination. We may not be able to complete a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate and our public stockholders may receive less than $6.06, and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination by November 9, 2012, or February 9, 2013 if we have executed a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or definitive agreement for a business combination within eighteen months of May 9, 2011, we will be forced to liquidate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate a business combination with a suitable target business within the required timeframe. If we are forced to liquidate, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $6.06 as a result of (1) any claims that may be made against the trust account, (2) any amounts released to us to purchase shares under our share repurchase program, (3) any interest earned on the amount held in trust that has been released to us to pay taxes and fund working capital requirements. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. Although we have identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into a business combination with a target that does not meet all of such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with all of our general criteria and guidelines. We have identified strong track records and cash flow characteristics, a strong competitive position, experienced management and diversified customer and supplier bases as general criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, but a target business with which we enter into a business combination may not have all of these attributes, and we may consider additional attributes. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. We intend to discuss the criteria that we consider in connection with a proposed business combination in the proxy statement soliciting stockholder approval for such transaction. If we announce a prospective business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to attain stockholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. We will be required to have a stockholder vote to approve the business combination and will offer each public stockholder the option to vote in favor of a proposed business combination and still seek redemption of his, her or its shares. In connection with stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock redeemed for cash for a full pro rata interest in the trust account (initially anticipated to be approximately $6.06 per share), regardless of whether such public stockholder votes any or all such shares in favor of our proposed registered business combination. We may proceed with a business combination as long as less than 93.1% (87.6% as adjusted for repurchases through September 30, 2011 under our Share Repurchase Plan) (or such threshold as appropriately reduced) of the shares sold in the Offering are redeemed in connection with such business combination. If we continue to exercise our right to repurchase up to 50% of the shares sold in the Offering, the redemption threshold will be further reduced in direct proportion to the percentage of shares purchased by us. Accordingly, a substantial number of public stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. This is different than many other recent blank check companies with respect to which stockholders are offered a right to redeem their shares only if they vote against a proposed business combination. 17 Our ability to effect a business combination successfully and to operate successfully thereafter will depend upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and none of whom is presently party to an employment or consulting agreement. Such key personnel may leave the Company prior to a business combination. While we intend to scrutinize closely any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully will depend upon the efforts of our key personnel, none of whom is party to an employment or consulting agreement requiring involvement with us through completion of a business combination and some of whom may leave prior to a business combination. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, some or all of the management of the target business may remain in place. While we intend to scrutinize closely any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which could adversely affect our operations. Unlike many other blank check companies, we allow up to one share less than 93.1% (87.6% as adjusted for repurchases through September 30, 2011 under our Share Repurchase Plan) of the total number of shares underlying units sold in the Offering to exercise their redemption rights. This redemption threshold could be significantly lowered based on the number of shares repurchased by the Company pursuant to the Share Repurchase Plan, or based on the terms of our initial business combination. The redemption threshold could make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree and could result in more money from the trust account being used to pay for redemptions than in other blank check companies and very little money remaining for use following consummation of a business combination. Each public stockholder (other than the initial stockholders) will have the right to have their shares of common stock redeemed for cash if an initial business combination is approved and consummated. We expect to consummate the initial business combination only if less than the redemption threshold is redeemed in connection with such business combination. However, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of his or any person with whom such public stockholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as such term is defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking redemption with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in the Offering on a cumulative basis. In the past, many blank check companies have had redemption thresholds of between 20% and 40%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to obtain the requisite level of stockholder participation so as to consummate a business combination. Therefore, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their redemption rights, it will be easier for us to consummate a business combination with a target business in the face of strong stockholder dissent, and we have reduced the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a significant block of our shares of common stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise favored by our public stockholders. Nevertheless, because our redemption threshold could be lowered, the percentage of shares that may be redeemed could be as low or lower than most blank check companies. Therefore, substantial purchases of shares under our Share Repurchase Plan will make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination in the face of strong shareholder opposition. Likewise, if the terms of our proposed initial business combination require a certain amount of cash in trust in order to consummate the business combination, the possibility that we will not be able to complete a business combination would be increased. Depending on the number of public shares that are redeemed in connection with a business combination, we may have very little money in our trust account with which to consummate a business combination. Such a development may result in our having to obtain additional financing to consummate our initial business combination, result in less money being available for use as working capital following a business combination or result in our failure to consummate a business combination. 18 Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination or any business combination. Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on business combinations is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter intense competition for potential target businesses from other blank check companies and entities other than blank check companies that have a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses seeking acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. Many of these competitors also possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the Offering, our ability to compete in acquiring sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives other companies an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of some target businesses. In addition, • the redemption of shares of common stock held by our public stockholders into cash may reduce the resources available to us to fund a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. Therefore, we do not know if the net proceeds of the Offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination. If the net proceeds of the Offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business or the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will have to seek additional financing. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. Any failure on our part to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. These securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 19 If our stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to our securities, this is likely to adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock, and the existence of such rights may make it more difficult for us to effect a business combination. The purchasers of the insider warrants and the EBC Warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their insider warrants, EBC Warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate a business combination. If such individuals and entities exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 3,000,000 shares of common stock and 6,960,000 warrants (as well as 6,960,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market will have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our shares of common stock. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fairness of the transaction to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the price we are paying is fair to our public stockholders from a financial point of view unless we seek to (i) acquire an entity with which our officers or directors, through their other business activities, had acquisition or investment discussions in the past; (ii) consummate an initial business combination with an entity which is, or has been within the past five years, affiliated with any of our officers, directors, initial stockholders or their affiliates, including an entity that is either a portfolio company of, or has otherwise received a material financial investment from, any private equity fund or investment company (or an affiliate thereof) that is affiliated with such individuals; or (iii) enter into a business combination where we acquire less than 100% of a target business and any of our officers, directors, initial stockholders or their affiliates acquire the remaining portion of such target business. If no opinion is obtained, our public stockholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. Although we have no commitment as of December 22, 2011, the latest practicable date, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock, or a combination thereof ordinary, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may effectively subordinate the rights of holders of shares of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our shares of common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any; and • may adversely affect prevailing secondary market prices for our shares of common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets after a business combination if our operating revenues are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of those covenants; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and 20 • our inability to obtain additional financing if a debt security that we issue contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while such debt security remains outstanding. Our negotiating position and our ability to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets may decrease as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to consummate our initial business combination that would produce value for our stockholders. Pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, we must complete our initial business combination by November 9, 2012, or February 9, 2013 if we have executed a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or definitive agreement for a business combination within eighteen months of May 9, 2011, or liquidate. As such deadline nears, our need to consummate an initial business combination with a target business will increase, which may decrease our negotiating leverage to obtain the best possible deal. In addition, such time restraint may limit the time we have to conduct due diligence and, as a result, our due diligence investigation may not be as detailed as would otherwise be the case. Following the business combination we may discover or otherwise become aware of adverse information regarding our acquired business, and we may be required subsequently to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our share price. Any such development could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We intend to conduct a due diligence investigation of any business we consider. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this process will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target’s business and our control will not later arise. If our due diligence investigation fails to identify material issues relating to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if these charges may be non-cash items and may not adversely affect our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming debt held by a target business or by virtue of our otherwise obtaining debt financing. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby creating potential conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs. This could create a conflict of interest when they allocate their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of our business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, this could limit the time they devote to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report contains an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” The report of our independent registered public accountants on our financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our ability to continue as a going concern will depend on securing additional financing. If the amount outside the trust account available for working capital is insufficient to pay our costs and expenses, we may be required to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our initial stockholders, officers, directors or third parties, the amount, availability and cost of which is currently unascertainable. None of our initial stockholders, officers or director is under any obligation to advance funds to, or invest in us. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds to fund our initial business combination and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to liquidate prior to consummating our initial business combination. Except for a small amount of interest income, we have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues or income until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We do not know when or if a business combination will occur. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 21 If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders could be forced to wait until February 9, 2013 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until November 9, 2012, or February 9, 2013 if we have executed a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or definitive agreement for a business combination within eighteen months of May 9, 2011, to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior to that date and then only in cases where investors have sought redemption of their shares. Only if we are unable to complete a business combination prior to the expiration of this time period will public stockholders become entitled to distributions from the trust account. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until or after such date. The liquidity of our securities in the open market may be reduced. Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the trustee can release to us from the trust account amounts necessary to purchase up to an average of $1.9 million worth of shares each month up to the aggregate amount of 3,000,000 shares. Additionally, we may redeem up to one share less than 93.1% (87.6% as adjusted for repurchases through September 30, 2011 under our Share Repurchase Plan) of the shares of common stock issued in the Offering. Purchases or redemptions by us of our shares, including the shares repurchased to date, may result in significantly fewer public shares being issued and outstanding. Continued repurchases or redemptions would, in turn, significantly reduce the liquidity of our securities, including our public shares that are not redeemed. As of September 30, 2011, we have repurchased 658,000 shares of our common stock according to our Share Repurchase Plan. If the net proceeds of the Offering not being held in trust are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 18 months, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest to be earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate at least until November 9, 2012, assuming that we do not consummate a business combination during that time. Our estimates are based on our own expectation that we will undertake in-depth due diligence only after we have negotiated and signed a letter of intent or other preliminary agreement that addresses the terms of a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. Since we will initially only have $250,000 available outside of the trust account, we will rely on interest earned on funds held in trust for our working capital. While we are entitled to have released to us for working capital purposes interest earned on the funds in the trust account, the current low interest rate environment may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial stockholders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. None of our initial stockholders officers or directors is under any obligation to advance funds to us in such circumstances. If sufficient interest is not earned from funds held in the trust account and we are unable to find alternative financing, we will not have sufficient capital to consummate a business combination. We may use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of such funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we enter into a letter of intent under which we pay for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. 22 We could use resources in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other service providers. If we do not decide to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as if 93.1% (87.6% as adjusted for repurchases through September 30, 2011 under our Share Repurchase Plan) (or such threshold as appropriately reduced) or more of the shares sold in the Offering are redeemed in connection with such business combination. Any such event would result in us having fewer resources for subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another business. We may acquire a target business that is financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth. We may acquire a target business that is financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth. Financially unstable and early stage companies are subject to a variety of risks, including the risk that they may incur net losses, may require significant additional capital expenditures, may be more susceptible to general economic downturns or may require significant amounts of additional financing. The incumbent management of such target businesses may be ill-equipped or incapable of leading the company’s growth. It may also be difficult to forecast accurately the revenues and to plan for the operating expenses of these companies. The inability of any financially unstable or early stage company that we acquire to perform according to our forecasts and projections could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third parties bring claims against us or enter into a bankruptcy proceeding, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $6.06 per share. Placing funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. We will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage, and prospective target businesses with whom we negotiate, execute agreements with us waiving any claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders. We cannot, however, guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Even if such persons execute such agreements with us, we can offer no assurance that such persons will not seek recourse against the trust account. In addition, a court may refuse to uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the amount held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of an initial business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, Mr. Shah has agreed that he will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses, vendors, service providers or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Based on representations made to us by Mr. Shah, we believe Mr. Shah will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, we have not asked Mr. Shah to reserve any funds for such an eventuality. Furthermore, our belief is based on our expectation that such indemnification obligations will be minimal because we do not expect our initial stockholders to engage vendors or service providers unless they execute a waiver. Accordingly, if that belief is incorrect, we cannot assure you that Mr. Shah will be able to satisfy his obligations or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. Furthermore, Mr. Shah will not have any liability as to (1) any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective target business) and (2) any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of this offering against certain liabilities under the Securities Act. Additionally, if we are forced to file for bankruptcy or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account would be subject to applicable bankruptcy law and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and, as a result, be subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the amount of the initial investment. 23 We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of the Offering, which will cause us to depend on a single business which may offer a limited number of products or services. It is likely that we will be able to acquire only a single business with the funds held in trust. By consummating a business combination with only a single business, our company may lack diversification after the closing of such initial business combination. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous adverse economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to benefit from spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to compete in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may: • depend upon the performance of a single business, or • depend upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. Such a lack of diversification may render us vulnerable to a downturn in the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination and have a substantial adverse impact on us. Alternatively, if we seek to acquire several businesses concurrently, and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need each such seller to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us and delay our ability to complete a business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations and additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may amend the terms of the warrants that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of a majority of the then outstanding warrants. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by holders of a majority of the then outstanding warrants to change any term that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in an adverse way to a holder if a majority of the holders approve of such amendment. All of our officers and directors own shares of common stock and warrants. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions. Therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of common stock purchased prior to the Offering and insider warrants purchased upon consummation of the Offering. Such individuals have waived their right to redeem their initial shares of common stock or any other shares purchased in the Offering or thereafter, or to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the shares of common stock acquired prior to the Offering, as well as the insider warrants and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in the aftermarket, will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are subject to the requirements of Delaware law in the discharge of their duties to us, and we expect they will uphold both their duty of care and duty of loyalty to us. However, in the discharge of their duties, the personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their judgment in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 24 If our reserves for claims and liabilities to third parties are insufficient, our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them until any judgments, orders or decrees related thereto are executed fully. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that if we fail to consummate a business combination by November 9, 2012, or February 9, 2013 if we have executed a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or definitive agreement for a business combination within eighteen months of May 9, 2011, we will liquidate and our corporate existence will cease except for the purpose of winding up our affairs. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a liquidation. If we comply with certain procedures set forth in Sections 280 and 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as practicable after November 9, 2012 (or February 9, 2013 if certain criteria are met). As a result, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of: • all existing claims; • all pending claims; and • all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to set aside funds to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) until any judgments, orders or decrees related thereto are executed fully, and any liability of our stockholders therefore may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file for bankruptcy or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our liquidation commences, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants for cash. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants for cash only if we have an effective registration statement covering the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such underlying shares of common stock. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders of warrants will only be able to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis and then, only if such cashless exercise is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We do not believe that such an exemption is currently available. We may not be able to maintain a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants due to a lack of current financial information and/or insufficient resources to file a current prospectus and relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. 25 Our officers, directors and their affiliates may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our directors, officers or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us, and we may not be afforded an opportunity to engage in a transaction with such target business. Our management may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business transaction. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business transaction and, as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business transaction is in the best interest of our public stockholders. Our management may not be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business transaction unless they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with a business transaction. If, as a condition to a potential initial business transaction, our existing officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business transaction, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business transaction and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business transaction. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business transaction will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business transaction. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business transaction, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business transaction that our existing officers and directors remain if it is believed to be in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business transaction. If our shares of common stock become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less, and our shares of common stock have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our shares of common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under The NASDAQ Stock Market. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. 26 If our shares of common stock become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. The ability of our stockholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate a desirable business combination or to optimize our capital structure. In connection with a proposed business combination, we will offer our public stockholders (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have their shares redeemed for cash. In connection with any stockholder vote to approve a business combination, any public stockholder will have the right to demand that such his, her or its shares be redeemed for a full pro rata interest in the trust account (which amount was initially anticipated to be approximately $6.06 per share.) Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption. Alternatively, we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. While we have engaged in initial discussions related to obtaining third-party financing, we have not secured such financing and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. As a result, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. If we continue to purchase shares of our common stock under our Share Repurchase Plan, the number of shares that may be redeemed in connection with our initial business combination will be reduced. In order to ensure that our minimum net tangible assets are in excess of $5.0 million following our initial business combination, the number of shares that may be redeemed in connection with our initial business combination may be lowered significantly depending on the number of shares we have repurchased under our Share Repurchase Plan. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to obtain shareholder approval and to consummate our initial business combination if we have repurchased a large number of shares under our Share Repurchase Plan. On August 10, 2011, we repurchased 329,000 shares of our common stock under the Share Repurchase Plan, and on September 1st, 6th, and 12th we repurchased an additional 329,000 shares in the aggregate. To the extent that our initial business combination is not approved by our stockholders, you will not receive your pro rata portion of the trust account until we liquidate and your only source of liquidity will be to attempt to sell your shares of our common stock. In such event, you will likely have to wait longer to receive cash from your investment than if we had completed such initial business combination and you may suffer a loss on your investment. We may require stockholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed registered business combination to comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either: (1) tender their stock certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the business day immediately preceding the consummation of our business combination or (2) deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s, or DTC, DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allow at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, to obtain a physical stock certificate this process may take significantly longer than two weeks. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to redeem may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus may be unable to redeem their shares. 27 If we require public stockholders who wish to redeem their shares to comply with specific requirements for redemption, such redeeming stockholders may be unable to sell their securities when they wish to if a proposed business combination is not consummated. If we require public stockholders who wish to redeem their shares to comply with specific requirements for redemption, and the related business combination is not consummated, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public stockholders. Accordingly, investors who attempt to redeem their shares will be unable to sell their securities after the failed acquisition until we have returned their securities to them. The market price for our shares of common stock may decline during this period, and you may not be able to sell your securities when you wish to, even while other stockholders that did not seek redemption may be able to sell their securities. At the closing of our business combination, we may use funds in our trust account to purchase, directly or indirectly, shares from holders thereof who have indicated an intention to vote against such proposed business combination, in the event such a vote is held, and/or redeem their shares. If holders of shares sold in the Offering indicate an intention on their part to vote against a proposed business combination and/or seek redemption of their shares into cash, we may privately negotiate arrangements to provide for the purchase of such shares at the closing of the business combination using funds held in the trust account, provided that any such purchases will not change the price per share payable to holders of our shares who have properly exercised their redemption rights. The purpose of such arrangements would be to increase the likelihood that holders of a majority of our shares of common stock outstanding would vote in favor of a proposed business combination and/or that holders of fewer than 93.1% (87.6% as adjusted for repurchases through September 30, 2011 under our Share Repurchase Plan) (or such threshold as appropriately reduced) of the total number of shares sold in the Offering would demand redemption of their shares where it appears that such requirements would otherwise not be met. This may result in the approval of a business combination that would not otherwise be possible. Additionally, as a consequence of such purchases, • the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business combination; and • the public “float” of our shares of common stock may be reduced, and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, which may make it difficult to obtain or maintain the quotation, listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange. The staggered terms of directors on our board of directors lessens the control over us exercised by our public stockholders. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. Accordingly, you may not be able to exercise your voting rights under Delaware corporate law for up to 17 months. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. At any such meeting our initial stockholders, because of their significant ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert significant control over us at least until the consummation of a business combination. We may redeem the warrants at a time that is not beneficial to public investors. We may call the public warrants for redemption at any time after the redemption criteria have been satisfied. If we call the public warrants for redemption, public stockholders may be forced to accept a nominal redemption price or sell or exercise the warrants when they may not wish to do so. 28 An investment in our shares may involve adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences because the redemption or liquidation price per share is greater than an investor’s initial tax basis in our shares of common stock. Although we intend to take a contrary position, if our shares of common stock are not viewed as participating in our corporate growth (i.e. our future earnings or increases in our net asset values) to any significant extent (other than by reason of any “conversion” feature), due to our limited potential for corporate growth prior to a business combination, there is a risk that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will assert that an investor’s entitlement to receive payments upon exercise of the investor’s redemption right or upon our liquidation in excess of the investor’s initial tax basis in our shares of common stock will result in constructive income to the investor. This could affect the timing and character of income recognition and result in U.S. federal income tax liability to an investor without such investor’s receipt of cash from us. Prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors with respect to these tax risks, as well as the specific tax consequences to them of purchasing, holding or disposing of our shares of common stock, warrants or units. If adjustments are made to the warrants, you may be deemed to receive a taxable distribution without the receipt of any cash. U.S. holders of units or warrants may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received distributions includible in income if adjustments are made to the warrants, even though holders would have not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustments. In certain circumstances, the failure to provide for such an adjustment may also result in a constructive distribution to you. In addition, non-U.S. holders of units or warrants may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received a distribution subject to U.S. federal withholding tax requirements. We may be subject to an increased rate of tax on our income if we are treated as a personal holding company. Depending on the date and size of our initial business combination, it is possible that we could be treated as a “personal holding company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes in a given taxable year if more than 50% of its ownership (by value) is concentrated, within a certain period of time, in five or fewer individuals (without regard to their citizenship or residency and including as individuals for this purpose certain entities such as certain tax-exempt organizations, pension funds, and charitable trusts), and at least 60% of its income is comprised of certain passive items. Our executive officers’, directors’ and initial stockholders’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate a business combination, our officers, directors and initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of our working capital. Our officers, directors and initial stockholders may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses in a manner consistent with their fiduciary duties under Delaware law. If the target business’s owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers, directors and initial stockholders or their affiliates could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. Management’s unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, along with management’s financial interest in consummating an initial business combination, may lead management to enter into an acquisition agreement that is not in the best interest of our stockholders, which would be the case if we pay too much for the business combination target. If the proceeds of the trust account become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, the claims of creditors in such proceeding may have priority over the claims of our stockholders and the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. If we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. 29 If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. Our search for a target business is not limited to a particular geographical region. If we acquire a target business located outside of the United States, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, which may include: • rules and regulations or currency redemption or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • laws governing the manner in which future business combinations may be effected; • exchange listing and/or delisting requirements; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. If we are unable to adequately address these additional risks, our operations might suffer. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements, and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we acquire a target business located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will likely govern the material agreements relating to its operations. The target business may not be able to enforce any of its material agreements, or remedies may not be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. An inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States, and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete a business transaction with prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business transaction meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire. 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 