Risk Factors Related to JetPay Payroll Services JetPay Payroll Services’ systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect its business and reputation. Many of JetPay Payroll Services’ customers are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. JetPay Payroll Services relies heavily on its payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, JetPay Payroll Services could suffer financial loss, a disruption of their customers, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation. JetPay Payroll Services has disaster recovery plans in place to protect its business against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite preparations, JetPay Payroll Services’ disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, disruptions to its operations or damage to its important facilities. 20 Political and economic factors may adversely affect JetPay Payroll Services’ business and financial results. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on JetPay Payroll Services’ businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with JetPay Payroll Services. JetPay Payroll Services invests client funds in liquid, government-backed securities. Nevertheless, its client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. JetPay Payroll Services is dependent upon various large banks to execute ACH and wire transfers as part of its client payroll and tax services. While JetPay Payroll Services has contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede its ability to process funds on behalf of its payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on its financial results and liquidity. JetPay Payroll Services’ services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies. Many of JetPay Payroll Services’ services, particularly payroll tax administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of JetPay Payroll Services’ services and substantially decrease its revenue. Added requirements could also increase JetPay Payroll Services’ cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist JetPay Payroll Services’ clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on its reputation. Failure by JetPay Payroll Services to modify its services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform. The Affordable Care Act was enacted in March 2010 and entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018. Many provisions of the Affordable Care Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health & Human Services, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), and the States. As a service provider, we may be requested by our clients to help them understand their increased obligations under the federal and state regulations facing employers under the Affordable Care Act. Failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base. There is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will continue to be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our HR and Affordable Care Act services. Interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. JetPay Payroll Services receives interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology and partnerships with other third party service providers. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. 21 JetPay Payroll Services may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, JetPay Payroll Services relies on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks, banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees, and other third party providers for certain HCM services such as Affordable Care Act services. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to JetPay Payroll Services’ operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to JetPay Payroll Services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N/A. 