ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Company The Company has changed the focus of its business to acquiring, developing and monetizing patents through licensing and enforcement. The Company may not be able to successfully monetize the patents which it acquires and thus it may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully acquire, develop or monetize its patent portfolio. The acquisition of the patents could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that the Company does not currently foresee. Failure to successfully monetize these patent assets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of the patent portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to the following: • There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred that would have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position; • The integration of a patent portfolio will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt the Company’s operations. If its integration efforts are not successful, the Company’s results of operations could be harmed. In addition, the Company may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from such acquisition; Therefore, there is no assurance that the monetization of the patent portfolios to be acquired will generate enough revenue to recoup the Company’s investment. The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and future prospects. The Company is a development stage company and has generated no revenue to date and has only incurred expenses related to its patents. The Company has, prior to the acquisition of Sampo, been involved in unrelated businesses. The Company’s efforts to license existing patents and develop new patents are still in development. Therefore, the Company not only has no operating history in executing its business model which includes, among other things, creating, prosecuting, licensing, litigating or otherwise monetizing its patent assets. The Company’s lack of operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business model and future prospects. In light of the costs, uncertainties, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development with no operating history, there is a significant risk that the Company will not be able to: • implement or execute its current business plan, or demonstrate that its business plan is sound; and/or • raise sufficient funds in the capital markets to effectuate its business plan. If the Company cannot execute any one of the foregoing or similar matters relating to its operations, its business may fail. 6 The Company is presently reliant exclusively on the patent assets it acquired from Sampo. If the Company is unable to license or otherwise monetize such assets and generate revenue and profit through those assets or by other means, there is a significant risk that the Company’s business would fail. At the Company’s commencement of its current line of business in 2012, it acquired a portfolio of patent assets from Sampo, a company affiliated with our Chief Executive Officer Douglas Croxall, that it plans to license or otherwise monetize. If the Company’s efforts to generate revenue from such assets fail, the Company will have incurred significant losses and may be unable to acquire additional assets. If this occurs, the Company’s business would likely fail. The Company did not obtain any independent valuation with respect to the portfolio acquired from Sampo. The Company may commence legal proceedings against certain companies, and the Company expects such litigation to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect its financial condition and its ability to operate its business. To license or otherwise monetize its patent assets, the Company may commence legal proceedings against certain companies, pursuant to which the Company may allege that such companies infringe on one or more of the Company’s patents. The Company’s viability could be highly dependent on the outcome of this litigation, and there is a risk that the Company may be unable to achieve the results it desires from such litigation, which failure would harm the Company’s business to a great degree. In addition, the defendants in this litigation are likely to be much larger than the Company and have substantially more resources than the Company does, which could make the Company’s litigation efforts more difficult. The Company anticipates that these legal proceedings may continue for several years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, the Company may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend its intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defendants or other third parties involved in the lawsuits in which the Company is involved may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such defenses or counterclaims are successful, they may preclude the Company’s ability to derive licensing revenue from the patents. A negative outcome of any such litigation, or one or more claims contained within any such litigation, could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business. Additionally, the Company anticipates that its legal fees and other expenses will be material and will negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and may result in its inability to continue its business. The Company may seek to internally develop additional new inventions and intellectual property, which would take time and be costly. Moreover, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for such inventions would lead to the loss of the Company’s investments in such activities. Part of the Company’s business may include the internal development of new inventions or intellectual property that the Company will seek to monetize. However, this aspect of the Company’s business would likely require significant capital and would take time to achieve. Such activities could also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business. There is also the risk that the Company’s initiatives in this regard would not yield any viable new inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of the Company’s investments in time and resources in such activities. In addition, even if the Company is able to internally develop new inventions, in order for those inventions to be viable and to compete effectively, the Company would need to develop and maintain, and it would heavily rely on, a proprietary position with respect to such inventions and intellectual property. However, there are significant risks associated with any such intellectual property the Company may develop principally including the following: • patent applications the Company may file may not result in issued patents or may take longer than the Company expects to result in issued patents; • the Company may be subject to interference proceedings; • the Company may be subject to opposition proceedings in the U.S. or foreign countries; • any patents that are issued to the Company may not provide meaningful protection; • the Company may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • other companies may challenge patents issued to the Company; 7 • other companies may have independently developed and/or patented (or may in the future independently develop and patent) similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate the Company’s technologies; • other companies may design around technologies the Company has developed; and • enforcement of the Company’s patents would be complex, uncertain and very expensive. The Company cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future applications, or that any of the Company’s patents, once issued, will provide the Company with adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, the Company cannot be certain that it will be the first to make its additional new inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may have or may obtain issued patents that could prevent the Company from commercializing the Company’s products or require the Company to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable the Company to conduct its business. As to those patents that the Company may license or otherwise monetize, the Company’s rights will depend on maintaining its obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and the Company may be unable to do so. The Company’s failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for the Company’s inventions would lead to the loss the Company’s investments in such activities, which would have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s company. Moreover, patent application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from the Company’s internally generated patents and could cause the Company to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm the Company’s business and operating results. If Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect the Company’s business model. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect the Company’s ability to assert its patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the “Leahy-Smith Act”), was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These changes include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is too early to tell what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of the Company’s new business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of the Company’s issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. Further, and in general, it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which the Company conducts its business and negatively impact the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s acquisitions of patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets, which are and will be critical to the Company’s business plan, are often time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. The Company may utilize many different transaction structures in its acquisitions and the terms of such acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, the Company expects to incur significant operating expenses and will likely be required to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. Even if the Company is able to acquire particular patent assets, there is no guarantee that the Company will generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs. While the Company will seek to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patent assets the Company is considering for acquisition, the Company may acquire patent assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, the Company may be required to spend significant resources to defend the Company’s interest in the patent assets and, if the Company is not successful, its acquisition may be invalid, in which case the Company could lose part or all of its investment in the assets. 8 The Company may also identify patent or other intellectual property assets that cost more than the Company is prepared to spend with its own capital resources. The Company may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for the Company. These higher costs could adversely affect the Company’s operating results, and if the Company incurs losses, the value of its securities will decline. In addition, the Company may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies will likely be untested and may be subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which the Company’s licensees will adopt its patents and technologies in their products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies the Company acquires or develops will have value that it can monetize. In certain acquisitions of patent assets, the Company may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price. This approach may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to the Company’s business. The Company has limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets where the Company can defer payments or finance a portion of the acquisition price. These types of debt financing or deferred payment arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as receiving the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition. As a result, the Company might not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring patent assets, many of whom have greater cash resources than the Company has. In addition, any failure to satisfy the Company’s debt repayment obligations may result in adverse consequences to its operating results. Any failure to maintain or protect the Company’s patent assets or other intellectual property rights could significantly impair its return on investment from such assets and harm the Company’s brand, its business and its operating results. The Company’s ability to operate its business and compete in the intellectual property market largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of the Company’s acquired patent assets and other intellectual property. To protect the Company’s proprietary rights, the Company relies on and will rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with its employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. No assurances can be given that any of the measures the Company undertakes to protect and maintain its assets will have any measure of success. Following the acquisition of patent assets, the Company will likely be required to spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of those assets by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Company may acquire patent assets, including patent applications, which require the Company to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Further, there is a material risk that patent related claims (such as, for example, infringement claims (and/or claims for indemnification resulting therefrom), unenforceability claims, or invalidity claims) will be asserted or prosecuted against the Company, and such assertions or prosecutions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending such claims could cause the Company to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from the Company’s other activities. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, any of the following or similar occurrences may reduce the value of the Company’s intellectual property: • the Company’s applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • issued trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide the Company with any competitive advantages when compared to potentially infringing other properties; • the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of the Company’s technology; or • the Company’s efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those the Company acquires and/or prosecutes. Moreover, the Company may not be able to effectively protect its intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where the Company may do business in the future or from which competitors may operate. If the Company fails to maintain, defend or prosecute its patent assets properly, the value of those assets would be reduced or eliminated, and the Company’s business would be harmed. 9 Weak global economic conditions may cause infringing parties to delay entering into licensing agreements, which could prolong the Company’s litigation and adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company’s business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties infringing on the Company’s assets to enter into licensing or other revenue generating agreements voluntarily. Entering into such agreements is critical to the Company’s business plan, and the Company’s failure to do so could cause material harm to its business. The Company is a development stage company with no historically significant income and there is a significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue its activities as a going concern. The Company is still a development stage company. The Company’s operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in development stage companies that do not have significant revenues or operating income. The Company’s potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business. The Company cannot provide any assurance that its business objectives will be accomplished. All of the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements, since inception, have contained a statement by the Company’s management that raises significant doubt about the Company being able to continue as a going concern unless the Company is able to raise additional capital. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recovery and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company’s operations cease. If the Company is unable to adequately protect its intellectual property, the Company may not be able to compete effectively. The Company’s ability to compete depends in part upon the strength of the Company’s proprietary rights that it owns or may hereafter acquire in its technologies, brands and content. The Company relies on a combination of U.S. and foreign patents, copyrights, trademark, trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts the Company takes to protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of its intellectual property and proprietary rights. In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective in every country in which the Company’s services are made available. There may be instances where the Company is not able to fully protect or utilize its intellectual property in a manner that maximizes competitive advantage. If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of the Company’s products may be reduced, which could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company’s inability to obtain appropriate protections for its intellectual property may also allow competitors to enter the Company’s markets and produce or sell the same or similar products. In addition, protecting the Company’s intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and diverts critical managerial resources. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if the Company is otherwise unable to protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights, the Company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected. If the Company is forced to resort to legal proceedings to enforce its intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive. In addition, the Company’s proprietary rights could be at risk if the Company is unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, those proceedings. The Company also relies on trade secrets and contract law to protect some of its proprietary technology. The Company will enter into confidentiality and invention agreements with its employees and consultants. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and they may not effectively protect the Company’s right to its un-patented trade secrets and know-how. Moreover, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company’s trade secrets and know-how. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our management will be able to exert significant influence over us to the detriment of minority stockholders. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 12.96% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, will be able to exert significant influence on our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing our change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. 10 Exercise of warrants will dilute your percentage of ownership. We have issued warrants to purchase 6,500,000 shares of common stock to our officers, directors and consultants. Additionally, we have issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock to certain shareholders. In the future, we may grant additional stock options, warrants and convertible securities. The exercise or conversion of stock options, warrants or convertible securities will dilute the percentage ownership of our other stockholders. The dilutive effect of the exercise or conversion of these securities may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional capital. The holders of these securities may be expected to exercise or convert them when we would be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable than these securities. We may fail to qualify for continued listing on the OTC Bulletin Board which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). There can be no assurance that trading of our common stock on such market will be sustained or that we can meet OTCBB’s continued listing standards. In the event that our common stock fails to qualify for continued inclusion, our common stock could thereafter only be quoted on the “pink sheets.” Under such circumstances, shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations, for our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive to certain purchasers such as financial institutions, hedge funds and other similar investors. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or appreciate over time. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in our industry; • competitive pricing pressures; • our ability to obtain working capital financing; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock; • our ability to execute our business plan; • operating results that fall below expectations; • loss of any strategic relationship; • regulatory developments; and • economic and other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have never paid nor do we expect in the near future to pay dividends. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Investors should not rely on an investment in our Company if they require income generated from dividends paid on our capital stock. Any income derived from our common stock would only come from rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 11 Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our Common stock in the public market upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an "overhang" and in anticipation of which the market price of our Common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. The shares of our restricted common stock will be freely tradable upon the earlier of: (i) effectiveness of a registration statement covering such shares and (ii) the date on which such shares may be sold without registration pursuant to Rule 144 (or other applicable exemption) under the Securities Act. Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us becoming public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any secondary offerings on our behalf. Investor relations activities, nominal “float” and supply and demand factors may affect the price of our stock. The Company expects to utilize various techniques such as non-deal road shows and investor relations campaigns in order to create investor awareness for the Company. These campaigns may include personal, video and telephone conferences with investors and prospective investors in which our business practices are described. The Company may provide compensation to investor relations firms and pay for newsletters, websites, mailings and email campaigns that are produced by third-parties based upon publicly-available information concerning the Company. The Company does not intend to review or approve the content of such analysts’ reports or other materials based upon analysts’ own research or methods. Investor relations firms should generally disclose when they are compensated for their efforts, but whether such disclosure is made or complete is not under our control. In addition, investors in the Company may, from time to time, also take steps to encourage investor awareness through similar activities that may be undertaken at the expense of the investors. Investor awareness activities may also be suspended or discontinued which may impact the trading market our common stock. The SEC and FINRA enforce various statutes and regulations intended to prevent manipulative or deceptive devices in connection with the purchase or sale of any security and carefully scrutinize trading patterns and company news and other communications for false or misleading information, particularly in cases where the hallmarks of “pump and dump” activities may exist, such as rapid share price increases or decreases. We, and our shareholders may be subjected to enhanced regulatory scrutiny due to the small number of holders who initially will own the registered shares of our common stock publicly available for resale, and the limited trading markets in which such shares may be offered or sold which have often been associated with improper activities concerning penny-stocks, such as the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTCQB Marketplace (Pink OTC) or pink sheets. Until such time as our restricted shares are registered or available for resale under Rule 144, there will continue to be a small percentage of shares held by a small number of investors, many of whom acquired such shares in privately negotiated purchase and sale transactions, which will constitute the entire available trading market. The Supreme Court has stated that manipulative action is a term of art connoting intentional or willful conduct designed to deceive or defraud investors by controlling or artificially affecting the price of securities. Often times, manipulation is associated by regulators with forces that upset the supply and demand factors that would normally determine trading prices. Since a small percentage of the outstanding common stock of the Company will initially be available for trading, held by a small number of individuals or entities, the supply of our common stock for sale will be extremely limited for an indeterminate amount of time, which could result in higher bids, asks or sales prices than would otherwise exist. Securities regulators have often cited factors such as thinly-traded markets, small numbers of holders, and awareness campaigns as hallmarks of claims of price manipulation and other violations of law when combined with manipulative trading, such as wash sales, matched orders or other manipulative trading timed to coincide with false or touting press releases. There can be no assurance that the Company’s or third-parties’ activities, or the small number of potential sellers or small percentage of stock in the “float,” or determinations by purchasers or holders as to when or under what circumstances or at what prices they may be willing to buy or sell stock will not artificially impact (or would be claimed by regulators to have affected) the normal supply and demand factors that determine the price of the stock. 12 Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the sec, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. Our common stock is considered a “Penny Stock”. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, has adopted sales practice requirements which may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the "penny stock" rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit investors’ ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuation which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or appreciate over time. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our key management, including Doug Croxall, our Chief Executive Officer. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining our employees in the future. The loss of Mr. Croxall may have an adverse effect on our operations. We have entered into a two year employment agreement with Mr. Croxall. We are competing for employees against companies that are more established than we are and have the ability to pay more cash compensation than we do. As of the date hereof, we have not experienced problems hiring employees in the recent past. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. As a result, our small size and any future internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and access to capital. We have not performed an in-depth analysis to determine if historical un-discovered failures of internal controls exist, and may in the future discover areas of our internal control that need improvement. 