Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below in evaluating an investment in the Company’s Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company, or which the Company currently deems not material, also may adversely impact the Company’s business operations. The value or market price of the Company’s Common Stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Growth Strategy We may not be able to implement aspects of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy contemplates the future expansion of our business and operations both organically and by selective acquisitions such as through the establishment or acquisition of banks and banking offices in our market areas and other markets. Implementing these aspects of our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully identify acquisition opportunities and strategic partners that will complement our operating philosophy and to successfully integrate their operations with ours, as well as generate loans and deposits of acceptable risk and expense. To successfully acquire or establish banks or banking offices, we must be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets, as well as attract the necessary relationships and high caliber banking personnel to make these new banking offices profitable. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion or, if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate these new operations into our business. 12 As consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We will compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We can offer no assurance that we will have opportunities to acquire other financial institutions or acquire or establish any new branches or loan production offices, or that we will be able to negotiate, finance and complete any opportunities available to us. If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business, results of operations and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. Future expansion involves risks. The acquisition by us of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions, or the establishment of de novo branch offices and loan production offices, involves a number of risks, including the risk that: · we may incur substantial costs in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local managers, and opening new offices; · our estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate; · the institutions we acquire may have distressed assets and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the value we predict from those assets or that we will make sufficient provisions or have sufficient capital for future losses; · we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment, or other charges related to the institutions we acquire that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations; · there may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition or opening a new office and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion; · we may not be able to finance an acquisition, or the financing we obtain may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or result in dilution to our existing shareholders; · our management’s attention in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from our existing business and we may not be able to successfully integrate such operations and personnel; · our announcement of another transaction prior to completion of a merger could result in a delay in obtaining regulatory or shareholder approval for a merger, which could have the effect of limiting our ability to fully realize the expected financial benefits from the transaction; · we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition; · we may enter new markets where we lack local experience or that introduce new risks to our operations, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; · we may introduce new products and services we are not equipped to manage or that introduce new risks to our operations, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; · we may incur intangible assets in connection with an acquisition, or the intangible assets we incur may become impaired, which results in adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; 13 · we may assume liabilities in connection with an acquisition, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price; or · we may lose key employees and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any banking offices that we acquire into our operations or retain the customers of those offices. If any of these risks occur in connection with our expansion efforts, it may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. It may be difficult to integrate the business of Citizens South and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Citizens South. If our costs to integrate the business of Citizens South into our existing operations are greater than anticipated or we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, loss of customers, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Citizens South that are materially greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value adjustments. We accounted for the Citizens South merger under the acquisition method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of Citizens South at fair value based on preliminary acquisition accounting adjustments. Under acquisition accounting, we have until one year after the merger date to finalize the fair value adjustments, meaning we may adjust the preliminary fair value estimates of Citizens South’s assets and liabilities based on new or updated information that provided a better estimate of the fair value at merger date. We recorded at fair value all purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans acquired in the merger based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using specific credit reviews of certain loans, quantitative credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk models, and qualitative economic and environmental assessments, each of which uses assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying value of PCI loans and their expected cash flows – the “nonaccretable difference” – is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses and related provision expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans. For more information see, “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report. We may not be able to generate and manage our organic growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have grown rapidly since we commenced operations in October 2006, and our modified business strategy contemplates continued growth, both organically and through acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits or in introducing new products and services at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with our historical or modified organic growth strategy. We may be unable to increase our volume of loans and deposits or to introduce new products and services at acceptable risk levels for a variety of reasons, including an inability to maintain capital and liquidity sufficient to support continued growth. If we are successful in growing, we cannot assure you that further growth would offer the same levels of potential profitability or that we would be successful in controlling costs and maintaining asset quality. Accordingly, an inability to grow, or an inability to effectively manage growth, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. 14 New bank office facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to organically expand into new markets that are profitable for our franchise. The costs to start up new bank branches and loan production offices in new markets, other than through acquisitions, and the additional costs to operate these facilities would increase our noninterest expense and may decrease our earnings. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage our growth through the establishment of bank branches or loan production offices in new markets. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our expansion into any such new markets will successfully attract enough new business to offset the expenses of their operation. If we are not able to do so, our earnings and stock price may be negatively impacted. Acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities may expose us to intangible asset risk, which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with any acquisitions, as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we will record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, and, as such, acquisitions may result in us recording intangible assets, including deposit intangibles and goodwill. We will perform a goodwill valuation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment. Impairment testing is a two-step process that first compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and second measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance, may significantly affect the fair value of any goodwill and may trigger impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will expand our business and operations to other markets in the Carolinas and Virginia. We intend to primarily target market areas that we believe possess attractive demographic, economic or competitive characteristics. To expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. Competition for qualified personnel in the markets in which we may expand may be intense, and there may be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the commercial banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from other banks or be unable to do so at a reasonable cost. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We may need additional access to capital, which we may be unable to obtain on attractive terms or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, for future growth or to fund losses or additional provision for loan losses in the future. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our stock price negatively affected. Risks Associated With Our Business The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we remain well capitalized and have not suffered from liquidity issues, we are operating in an economic environment that remains challenging and uncertain. Although real estate prices in most of our markets have stabilized or are improving, we retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we could be affected by negative events that could impact our borrowers and guarantors, or their clients, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. In addition, an extended deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets and target markets could drive losses beyond those that are or will be provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following consequences: · increases in loan delinquencies; 15 · increases in nonperforming loans and foreclosures; · decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position; · decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power; and · decreases in our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to continue to be challenged, which could negatively impact our stock price. Our estimated allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The determination of the allowance for loan losses, which represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio, involves a high degree of judgment and complexity. Our policy is to establish reserves for estimated losses on delinquent and other problem loans when it is determined that losses are expected to be incurred on such loans. At December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses totaled approximately $10.6 million, which represented 0.78% of total loans and 59.44% of total nonperforming loans. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on various factors, including an evaluation of the portfolio, current economic conditions, the volume and type of lending conducted by us, composition of the portfolio, the amount of our classified assets, seasoning of the loan portfolio, the status of past due principal and interest payments and other relevant factors. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on our financial statements. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. In addition, we may be required to increase the allowance due to the conditions of loans acquired as result of the mergers with Community Capital and Citizens South, should the remaining acquisition accounting fair market value adjustments for such loans be judged inadequate relative to their estimated future performance. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. The risks inherent in our loan portfolio have been exacerbated by the negative developments in the financial markets and the economy in general, and additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. Our allowance for loan losses decreased as a percentage of total loans throughout 2012 as our asset quality continued to improve and as acquired loans, including associated acquisition accounting fair market value adjustments, for which the predecessor company’s allowance is eliminated under the acquisition method of accounting, were added to the portfolio in the fourth quarter. However, no assurance can be given that the allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and we may experience losses in our loan portfolio or perceive adverse conditions and trends that may require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, which could impact our stock price. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2012, our nonperforming assets totaled approximately $43.2 million, or 2.13% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our earnings in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned (“OREO”). We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well write-downs from time to time, as appropriate, of the value of properties in our OREO portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our OREO. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly and as a result our earnings may be adversely affected, which could impact our stock price. 16 Failure to comply with the terms of the FDIC loss-share agreements acquired from Citizens South may result in significant losses. As a result of our merger with Citizens South, we assumed certain FDIC loss-share agreements. These loss-share agreements cover approximately $101.7 million (net of related fair value marks) in assets, and provide that the FDIC will reimburse us for between 80 and 95 percent of net losses on covered assets. We must comply with the specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements provided in the agreements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and OREO under the requirements of the loss-share agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss-share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate, particularly commercial real estate and construction and development, may increase our loan losses. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market areas. Consequently, declines in economic conditions in these market areas may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. At December 31, 2012, approximately 90% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral and includes a significant portion of loans secured by commercial real estate and construction and development collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Over the past several years, real estate values in our market areas have declined and may continue to decline. Continued declines in real estate values expose us to further deterioration in the value of the collateral for all loans secured by real estate and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans, particularly when there is a downturn in the business cycle. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner’s business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located, each of which could increase the likelihood of default on the loan. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in the percentage of nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, which could negatively affect our stock price. Banking regulators are examining commercial real estate lending activity with heightened scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which in turn could negatively affect our stock price. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could adversely impact our results of operations and stock price. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: general or local economic conditions; environmental cleanup liability; neighborhood values; interest rates; real estate tax rates; operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; supply of and demand for rental units or properties; ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; zoning laws; governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating income-producing real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. 17 We maintain a number of large lending relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if our borrowers were not to perform according to the terms of these loans. Our ten largest lending relationships (including aggregate exposure to guarantors) at December 31, 2012, range from $6.9 million to $8.2 million and averaged $7.8 million. None of these lending relationships was included in nonperforming loans at December 31, 2012. The deterioration of one or more additional large relationship loans could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the increased level of recent bank failures may lead to regulatory changes that may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the credit markets and in the general economy in recent years have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the current economic downturn continuing through at least 2013. The competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years, and the high rate at which banks have been placed in federal receivership since 2008 is unprecedented. As a result, there is a potential for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The FDIC deposit insurance assessments that we are required to pay may increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessments are required to maintain the level of the FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio. The recent failures of many financial institutions have significantly increased the loss provisions of the DIF, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum reserve ratio (previously 1.15% of insured deposits) must increase to a minimum of 1.35% of insured deposits (or the comparable percentage of the applicable assessment base) by 2020, with certain exceptions for small banks (those institutions with less than $10 billion in assets). In December 2010, the FDIC adopted a final rule setting the reserve ratio at 2.00%. The FDIC also can, subject to certain limitations, change the assessment rates of insured institutions in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratio. In the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied a special assessment on insured depository institutions equal to 0.05% of the institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the DIF on December 31, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act and FDIC rules adopted thereunder changed the formula for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Effective April 1, 2011, assessments are calculated as a percentage of average total assets less average tangible equity during the assessment period, rather than as a percentage of total deposits, as previously provided. Furthermore, also effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC has changed the initial and total base assessment rates applicable to all insured depository institutions. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred approximately $1.1 million, $616 thousand and $648 thousand, respectively, in deposit insurance expense. Due to the recent changes in the deposit base and in the assessment rates, as well as our growth strategy, we may be required to pay additional amounts to the DIF. If the deposit insurance premium assessment rate applicable to us increases, whether because of our risk classification, because of emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase or prepayment requirements, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. 18 Recent legislation and administrative actions may not be effective to stabilize the financial markets and may have unintended consequences. Numerous actions have been taken by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve Board, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the challenges facing the financial services sector since the subprime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007. There can be no assurance that the recent and any future legislative and regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives that have been and may be enacted will be sufficient to produce the desired results. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. Moreover, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will likely result in significant changes to the banking industry as a whole which, depending on how its provisions are implemented by the various regulatory agencies, could adversely affect our business. The downgrade in the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating and any further deterioration in that credit rating could result in an adverse impact on general economic conditions and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 2, 2011, Moody’s Investor Services affirmed the U.S. Government’s existing sovereign rating of AAA, but revised its rating outlook to negative. On June 8, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) affirmed the U.S. Government’s long-term sovereign credit rating of AA+ and stated that the outlook on the long-term rating remains negative. On the same day, S&P affirmed it’s A-1+ short-term rating on the U.S. The outlook remains negative. On July 10, 2012, Fitch Ratings, Inc. (“Fitch”) affirmed its AAA long-term rating on the U.S. and negative outlook. On the same day, Fitch affirmed its F1+ short-term rating on the U.S. and negative outlook. All three ratings agencies have indicated that they will continue to assess fiscal projections and consolidation measures, as well as the medium-term economic outlook for the United States. There continues to be the perceived risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. Government, including the ratings of U.S. Treasury securities. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. Government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market. The downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit ratings and perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government related obligations could impact the market value of such instruments as well as the ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and the pricing of that funding when available. Because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and us are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. However, those impacts could include a widening of sovereign and corporate credit spreads, devaluation of the U.S. dollar and a general market move away from riskier assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, liquidity and solvency of financial institutions, including us. Uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the European Union ("EU"), the increasing risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on financial markets, the Euro and the EU could have a significant adverse effect on general economic conditions in the U.S. and therefore result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial crisis in Europe has continued, triggered by high sovereign budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Hungary, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these EU countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and foster economic growth. These conditions impacted financial markets and resulted in credit ratings downgrades by S&P, Fitch and Moody’s of the sovereign debt of a number of EU countries. Certain European countries continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress, and yields on government-issued bonds in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Hungary, Portugal and Spain have risen and remain volatile. Despite assistance packages to certain of these countries, the creation of a long-term European Central Bank financing program and additional expanded financial assistance to Greece, uncertainty over the outcome of the EU governments’ financial support programs and worries about sovereign finances and the stability of the Euro and the EU persist. 19 Risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions, and international financial institutions with exposure to the region. There can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent uncertainty regarding the European economic recovery continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, or should the EU enter a deep recession, both the U.S. economy and our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by further interest rate adjustments by the Federal Reserve Board. As a financial institution, our earnings are dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of our assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand, business and results of operations. In response to the deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, in a series of actions of the past several years, the Federal Reserve Board has reduced interest rates to almost zero and the slope of the yield curve has generally flattened, which has negatively impacted our net interest margin, notwithstanding decreases in nonperforming loans and improvements in deposit mix. Any reduction in net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our securities. The primary tool that management uses to measure short-term interest rate risk is a net interest income simulation model prepared by an independent correspondent bank. As of December 31, 2012, the Company is considered to be in a slight liability-sensitive position, meaning income and capital are generally expected to increase with a decrease in short-term interest rates and, conversely, to decrease with an increase in short-term interest rates. However, based on the results of this simulation model, if short-term interest rates immediately decreased by 300 basis points, we could expect net income and capital to decrease by approximately $2.0 million over a 12-month period. This result is primarily due to the current low interest rate environment, under which interest rates on the Company’s average interest-bearing liabilities cannot benefit fully from a 300 basis point rate reduction, without turning negative, while yields on our average interest-earning assets could decline by 300 basis points. As expected when in a liability-sensitive position, this simulation models indicates that if short-term interest rates immediately increased by 300 basis points, we could expect net income and capital to decrease by approximately $1.9 million over a 12-month period. We believe it is unlikely, based on current Federal Reserve Board indications of interest rate movements, that short-term interest rates will immediately increase or decrease by 300 basis points. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and currently are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the NC Commissioner, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, locations of offices, and the ability to accept brokered deposits. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, deposit funding strategy and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain well capitalized and well managed for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, the ability to execute our business strategies, the ability to grow our assets or establish new branches, the ability to obtain or renew brokered deposits, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, the ability to pay dividends on our Common Stock and the ability to make acquisitions. 20 The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits and make loans. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The new capital rules proposed in June 2012 by the federal banking regulatory agencies to implement the Basel III capital guidelines may adversely affect the Company’s capital adequacy and the costs of conducting its business. In June 2012, the federal banking regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, each issued three Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (the “Proposals”) that would revise and replace the agencies’ current capital rules to align with the Basel III capital standards and meet certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. While Basel III proposed a capital regime intended only for large internationally active banks, the Proposals extend the proposed capital standards to all U.S. banks, as well as to all bank holding companies with $500 million or more in consolidated assets, including the Company and the Bank. Certain requirements of the Proposals would establish more restrictive capital definitions, higher risk-weightings for certain asset classes, capital buffers and higher minimum capital ratios. The Proposals could have far reaching effects on our capital and the amount of capital required to support our business and therefore may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends significantly on economic conditions in our market areas. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our banking offices are currently concentrated in North Carolina, South Carolina and North Georgia. Even if our growth strategy is successful, we expect that our banking offices will remain primarily concentrated in North Carolina, South Carolina, North Georgia and Virginia. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions, locally or nationally, deteriorate further, this may have a significant impact on the amount of loans that we originate, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Prolonged continuation of the current economic downturn caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, government action or other factors beyond our control would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, some portions of our target market are in coastal areas, which are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, decrease the value of real estate collateral for our loans and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have in recent years been experiencing volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on the services of key executives and directors, a number of which are new additions to our management team following the Bank’s Public Offering. Following our Public Offering, we changed our management team and reduced the size of and reconstituted our board of directors. Our growth strategy contemplates continued services and expertise of these persons in the different markets in which it seeks to expand. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our growth strategy or on our business, operations and financial condition. 21 To be profitable, we must compete successfully with other financial institutions that have greater resources and capabilities than we do. The banking business in our target markets is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do and have been in existence a longer period of time. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and originating loans. We may not be able to attract customers away from our competition. We compete for loans and deposits with other commercial banks; savings banks; thrifts; trust companies; credit unions; securities brokerage firms; mortgage brokers; insurance companies; mutual funds; and industrial loan companies. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not regulated as extensively as we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Other competitors are subject to similar regulation but have the advantages of larger established customer bases, higher lending limits, extensive branch networks, greater advertising and marketing budgets or other factors. Our legal lending limit is determined by law and is calculated as a percentage of our capital and unimpaired surplus. The size of the loans that we are able to offer to our customers is less than the size of the loans that larger competitors are able to offer. This limit may affect our success in establishing relationships with the larger businesses in our market. We may not be able to successfully compete with the larger banks in our target markets. Our liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our primary sources of funds are deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, availability of, and/or access to, sources of refinancing, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances, sales of securities and loans, federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Discount Window, as well as additional out-of-market time deposits and brokered deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, which, if incorrect or incomplete, could harm our earnings. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers, counterparties or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on information provided to us, such as financial statements that do not comply with GAAP and may be materially misleading. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our operations. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action and adversely impact our results of operations. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. 22 We are subject to security and operational risks including risks relating to our use of technology that, if not managed properly, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. Any such failure also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To conduct our business, we rely heavily on technology-driven products and services and on communications and information systems. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. We have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards with respect to the physical infrastructure and systems that support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant and widespread disruption to our infrastructure or systems. Our financial, accounting, data processing, check processing, electronic funds transfer, loan processing, online banking, automated teller machines (“ATMs”) backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. There could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts, and cyber attacks. We continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth. This updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Information security risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers and other external parties. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. We rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct our operations, as well as on the honesty and integrity of our employees and vendors with access to those elements. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use computers, personal smartphones, tablet PCs, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may be subject to, or the target of, cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. We also face the risk of unauthorized activity, fraud or theft by our employees and/or vendors that could result in disclosure or misuse of our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information. In addition, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate transactions. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our customers, manage our exposure to risk or expand our business and could have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses related to cyber attacks or other information security breaches. Cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us and we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Risks Related to our Common Stock We may issue additional shares of stock or equity derivative securities, including awards to current and future executive officers, directors and employees, which could result in the dilution of shareholders’ investment. Our authorized capital includes 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 44,575,853 shares of Common Stock outstanding, including 646,260 shares which have voting rights but no economic interest related to unvested and performance-based restricted stock issued pursuant to our Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), and had reserved or otherwise set aside for issuance 3,119,692 shares underlying outstanding options and 390,236 shares that are available for future grants of stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based awards pursuant to our equity incentive plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had 20,500 shares of Series C Preferred Stock outstanding. Subject to NASDAQ rules, our board of directors generally has the authority to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or preferred stock for any corporate purpose. We anticipate that we will issue additional equity in connection with the acquisition of other strategic partners and that in the future we likely will seek additional equity capital as we develop our business and expand our operations, depending on the timing and magnitude of any particular future acquisition. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the Common Stock. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then existing shareholders. 23 In addition, the issuance of shares under our equity compensation plans will result in dilution of our shareholders’ ownership of our Common Stock. The exercise price of stock options could also adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional capital. Option holders are most likely to exercise their options when the exercise price is less than the market price for our Common Stock. They may profit from any increase in the stock price without assuming the risks of ownership of the underlying shares of Common Stock by exercising their options and selling the stock immediately. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and nontraditional competitors, news reports of trends and concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our stock price may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell our Common Stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of fluctuation in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business, which could result in losses to investors. Future sales of our Common Stock by shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our Common Stock price to decline. Although our Common Stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in the Common Stock may be lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the potential for lower relative trading volume in the Common Stock, significant sales of the Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. State laws and provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws could make it more difficult for another company to purchase us, even though such a purchase may increase shareholder value. In many cases, shareholders may receive a premium for their shares if we were purchased by another company. State law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for anyone to purchase us without approval of our board of directors. For example, our articles of incorporation divide our board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms with approximately one-third of the board of directors elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. This classification of directors makes it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors. As a result, at least two annual meetings of shareholders would be required for the shareholders to change a majority of directors, whether or not a change in the board of directors would be beneficial and whether or not a majority of shareholders believe that such a change would be desirable. We do not currently pay dividends on the Common Stock and may be unable to pay dividends on the Common Stock in the future. The current policy of our board of directors is to retain any earnings to provide for the growth of the Company, and we have not historically paid dividends. If we determine to pay dividends in the future, holders of our Common Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Our ability to pay dividends on the Common Stock also is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital as well as the restrictions set forth in the terms of our Series C Preferred Stock. If these requirements are not satisfied, we would be unable to pay dividends on our Common Stock. 24 Moreover, we are a bank holding company that is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, on our Common Stock would depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions received from the Bank. Various federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of the Bank or any other subsidiary we may have from time to time upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability of our shareholders to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent any of our claims as a creditor of the subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, our Common Stock effectively will be subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of the Bank and any other subsidiaries we may have. Your right to receive liquidation and dividend payments on our Common Stock is junior to our existing and future indebtedness and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future. Shares of our Common Stock are equity interests in the Company and do not constitute indebtedness. This means that shares of the Common Stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other nonequity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in our liquidation. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding approximately $32.7 million (excluding acquisition accounting fair market value adjustments) aggregate principal amount of subordinated debt which, in addition to our other liabilities, would be senior in right of payment to our Common Stock. We may incur additional indebtedness from time to time without the approval of the holders of our Common Stock. Our common shareholders also are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any preferred stock outstanding from time to time, include the Series C Preferred Stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock in the future without any action on the part of our common shareholders. Our Common Stock is not insured by the FDIC. Our Common Stock is not a savings or deposit account, and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to risk, including the possible loss of all or some principal. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 