D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. With respect to the proposed Transaction, these factors include, but are not limited to: the risk that we may (i) be unable to satisfy certain conditions to the Acquisition; (ii) be unable to consummate the Acquisition and (iii) withdraw the offer to purchase, not purchase and promptly return any common stock tendered to us pursuant to the offer to purchase; the risk that governmental and regulatory review of the offer documents may delay the Acquisition or result in the inability of the Transaction to be consummated by February 14, 2013 and the length of time necessary to consummate the proposed Transaction; the risk that a condition to closing may not be satisfied or waived; the risk that the anticipated benefits of the Transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that any projections, including earnings, revenues, expenses, synergies, margins or any other financial items are not realized; disruption from the Transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with the customers, employees or suppliers of Assetplus; a reduction in Assetplus’s industry profit margins; changing interpretations of generally accepted accounting principles; continued compliance with government regulations; changing legislation and regulatory environments; the continued ability to meet the Nasdaq Capital Market listing standards, including maintaining the requisite number of round lot holders or shareholders and maintaining the independent director requirements for the board of directors and its committees; “perils of the sea” or other unforeseen reasons that may adversely affect the business of Assetplus and its ability to service or fulfill its contracts with its customers; a lower return on investment; the inability to manage rapid growth; requirements or changes affecting the business in which Assetplus is engaged; the general volatility of the market price of our common stock; general economic conditions; the risk of the concentration of Assetplus’s business with Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. or its affiliates (“Petrobras”), and related risks associated with the business of Petrobras generally; the strength of the Brazilian or world economies. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the Transaction, will be more fully discussed in the Schedule TO that was filed with the SEC on December 7, 2012 in connection with the proposed Transaction 7 Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, the focus of which is to acquire, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization, recapitalization, exchangeable share transaction or other similar business transaction with one or more operating businesses or assets. We have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues or income until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business transaction. We do not know when or if a business transaction will occur. Our public shareholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed business transaction, unless such vote is required by law or the Nasdaq Capital Market. We intend to consummate our initial business transaction without seeking shareholder approval unless we are required by law or the Nasdaq Capital Market to seek shareholder approval, or we decide to seek shareholder approval for other business or legal reasons. Accordingly, we may consummate our initial business transaction even if holders of a majority of our public shares do not approve of the business transaction we consummate. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business transaction may be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your common stock from us for cash, unless we seek shareholder approval of the business transaction. Since our board of directors may consummate a business transaction without seeking shareholder approval, public shareholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on the business transaction, unless we seek such shareholder vote. Accordingly, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business transaction may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our public shareholders in which we describe our business transaction. In addition, your election to exercise your redemption rights could still be rejected if holders of more than approximately 88% of our common stock elect to exercise their redemption rights, or if, as a condition of the consummation of the business transaction, we are required to retain a certain minimum amount in the trust account by the target company. In addition, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of a proposed business transaction. If we are unable to consummate a business transaction, our public shareholders may be forced to wait until February 14, 2013 before they may redeem the proceeds of our trust account. We have until February 14, 2013 to consummate an initial business transaction. If we do not consummate a business transaction by such date, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up, (ii) redeem our common stock for cash equal to their pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest but net of taxes payable and less interest earned on the proceeds placed in the trust account but withdrawn by us for working capital purposes, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders’ rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as possible following such redemption, dissolve and liquidate as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless. If we are required to wind-up, liquidate the trust account and distribute such amount therein, pro rata, to our public shareholders, as part of any liquidation process, such winding up, liquidation and distribution must comply with the applicable provisions of the BCA. In that case, investors may be forced to wait beyond February 14, 2013 before the redemption proceeds of our trust account become available to them, and they receive the return of their pro rata portion of the proceeds from our trust account. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to the date of our redemption or liquidation unless we consummate a business transaction prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought to redeem their common stock. Only upon our redemption or any liquidation will public shareholders be entitled to distributions if we are unable to complete a business transaction. 8 We may not be able to consummate a business transaction within the required timeframe, in which case we will be forced to liquidate. We will only have until February 14, 2013 to consummate an initial business transaction. If we do not consummate a business transaction by such date, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up, (ii) as promptly as possible, but not more than five business days thereafter, redeem our common stock for cash equal to their pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest but net of taxes payable and less interest earned on the proceeds placed in the trust account but withdrawn by us for working capital purposes, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders’ rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as possible following such redemption, dissolve and liquidate as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame nor may we be able to consummate an acquisition in such time period. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any prospective target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for either our entering into a letter of intent or consummation of a business transaction. There is no guarantee that third parties will not seek recourse against the trust account. Our deposit of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Not all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage may execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case to gain advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our shareholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, the trust account, and not Messrs. Tsirigakis and Syllantavos, will be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. Shareholders may be liable for claims of third party creditors to the extent you receive distributions in a dissolution Under Marshall Islands law, shareholders might, in certain circumstances, be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we complied with the procedures set forth in Section 106 of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, which are intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a six month notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us before any liquidating distributions are made to shareholders, any liability of a shareholder with respect to a liquidating distribution should be limited to the lesser of such shareholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the shareholder, and any liability of the shareholder should be barred after the period set forth in such notice. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our shareholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution. As such, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our shareholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution or the settlement of claims, litigation or proceedings begun prior to or during the three year period. Accordingly, third parties may seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. 9 Our independent directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of Messrs. Tsirigakis and Syllantavos, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $10.10 per share and Messrs. Tsirigakis and Syllantavos assert that they are unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against such officers or directors to enforce their indemnification obligations. This situation may present significant conflicts of interest and while we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against such persons to enforce their indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders may be reduced below $10.10 per share. If we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and holders of more than approximately 88% of our common stock indicate their intention to vote against the transaction and exercise their redemption rights, our directors, officers or their affiliates could affect the outcome of the consummation of our business transaction if they elect to purchase shares from shareholders who would otherwise choose to exercise their redemption rights provided we are not subject to the foreign private issuer rules. Solely in the event we seek shareholder approval of our business transaction and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules and we are not subject to the foreign private issuer rules, any privately negotiated transaction to purchase shares from a shareholder who would otherwise vote against the business transaction and redeem its common stock for a pro rata portion of the trust account would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder, although still the record holder of our shares, is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that our officers, directors or their affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their common stock. Although we do not currently anticipate paying any premium purchase price for such public shares, in the event we do, the payment of a premium may not be in the best interests of those shareholders not receiving any such additional consideration. Any such purchases will not reduce the per-share redemption price to below $10.10. The purpose of such purchases would be to increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business transaction or, where the purchases are made by our directors, officers or their affiliates, to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum amount remaining in the trust account at the closing of the business transaction, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of our initial business transaction that may not otherwise have been possible. None of our officers, or directors have agreed to purchase any such shares, and the failure to so agree at the applicable time could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. Moreover, even if our officers or directors were to undertake such purchases, such purchases could be subject to limitations under applicable securities laws and regulations, including Regulation M and regulations regarding tender offers. The inability of such persons to effect such purchases could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. If we submit our business transaction to our shareholders for approval and we are not subject to the foreign private issuer rules, we may use funds in our trust account to purchase, directly or indirectly, shares from holders thereof who have indicated an intention to vote against the business transaction and redeem their common stock. Solely if we submit our business transaction to our shareholders for approval, we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules and we are not subject to the foreign private issuer rules, and holders of our public shares indicate an intention to vote against the business transaction and seek to redeem their common stock, we may privately negotiate arrangements to provide for the purchase of such shares at or after the closing of the business transaction using funds held in the trust account. The purpose of such purchases and arrangements would be to: (i) increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirement that no more than approximately 88% of our outstanding common stock demand to redeem their common stock or (ii) increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business transaction, where it appears that such requirements would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of a business transaction that may not otherwise have been possible. 10 If we seek shareholder approval of our business transaction and if we are not a FPI and are subject to the domestic issuer rules, public shareholders, together with any of their affiliates or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group”, will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than an aggregate of 20% of the common stock sold in our initial public offering. Solely if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules and we lose our status as a FPI and are subject to the U.S. domestic issuer rules, our amended articles of incorporation provides that a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from redeeming their common stock with respect to more than an aggregate of 20% of the common stock sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, if you hold more than 20% of the common stock sold in our initial public offering and we submit a proposed business transaction for shareholder approval, you will not be able to seek redemption with respect to the full amount of your common stock and may be forced to hold such additional common stock or sell them in the open market. The value of such additional common stock may not appreciate over time following the business transaction and the market price of such additional common stock may not exceed the per-share redemption price. Our purchases of common stock in privately negotiated transactions would reduce the funds available to us after our initial business transaction, may make it more difficult for us to maintain the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, and may have negative economic effects on shareholders from whom we do not purchase common stock in such private transactions. If we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction, we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules in connection with our business transaction and we are not subject to the foreign private issuer rules, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase common stock after the closing of the business transaction from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their common stock redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules for a per-share pro rata portion of the trust account. As a consequence of such purchases: ● the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after our initial business transaction; ● the public “float” of our common stock may be reduced and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced following the consummation of our business transaction, which may make it difficult to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of a national securities exchange, and adversely impact your ability to trade in our securities; ● because the shareholders who sell their common stock in a privately negotiated transaction, as described above, may receive a per-share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of taxes payable, our remaining shareholders may bear the entire payment of accrued and unpaid taxes and deferred underwriting commission. That is, if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction, the redemption price per share payable to public shareholders who elect to have their common stock redeemed will be reduced by a larger percentage of any taxes payable and deferred underwriting commission than it would have been in the absence of such privately negotiated transactions, and shareholders who do not elect to have their common stock redeemed and remain our shareholders after the business transaction will bear the economic burden of a larger percentage of the taxes payable and deferred underwriting commission; and ● the payment of any premium would result in a reduction in book value per share for the remaining shareholders compared to the value received by shareholders that have their common stock purchased by us at a premium. 11 You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public shareholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of: (i) our consummation of a business transaction, and then only in connection with those shares of common stock that such shareholder properly elected to redeem, subject to the restrictions described in this report, (ii) redemption to public shareholders prior to any voluntary winding-up in the event we do not consummate a business transaction or (iii) our liquidation. In no other circumstances will a shareholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being placed in the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least February 14, 2013, we may not be able to complete an initial business transaction. As of October 31, 2012, $18,466, which funds are remaining from certain loans from certain of our insiders, was held outside the trust account. In addition, up to 100% of the interest earned on the proceeds placed in the trust account is available to us for working capital purposes; however, we will not have an operating business in the period prior to our business transaction and will therefore be primarily dependent on these funds. These amounts may prove to be insufficient, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business transaction, or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business transaction that is not consummated. We could use a portion of the $18,466 held outside of the trust account as of October 31, 2012 and up to 100% of the interest earned on the proceeds placed in the trust account for working capital purposes, including due diligence costs in connection with a potential business transaction or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a provision designed to compensate a target for any breach by the buyer which results in a failure to close the transaction), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business transaction, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such an agreement with a prospective target where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee as a result of our breach of a merger or other agreement or if our costs are otherwise higher than expected, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conducting due diligence with respect to, any other potential target businesses. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the sponsors or from third parties, to continue operating. In July 2012, Messrs. Tsrigakis and Syllantavos loaned us an aggregate of $120,000 for general working capital purposes and in December 2012, they loaned us an aggregate of $140,000 for expenses relating to the consummation of our business transaction, as discussed in “Contractual Obligations” below. However, we may not be able to obtain additional financing and our sponsors and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating a business transaction. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business transaction since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete a business transaction. As of October 31, 2012, $18,466, which funds are remaining from loans from certain of our insiders, is available to us outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds and loans held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital that we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to consummate our initial business transaction, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. The current low interest rate environment may make it more difficult for us to have sufficient funds available to structure, negotiate or close our initial business transaction. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from certain of our insiders or management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. In July 2012, Messrs. Tsrigakis and Syllantavos loaned us an aggregate of $120,000 for general working capital purposes and in December 2012, they loaned us an aggregate of $140,000 for expenses relating to the consummation of our business transaction, as discussed in “Contractual Obligations” below. However, neither our sponsors nor any of our officers or directors is under any obligation to advance additional funds to us in such circumstances. 12 If we are deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business transaction. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: ● restrictions on the nature of our investments; and ● restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business transaction. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ● registration as an investment company; ● adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ● reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless we can qualify for an exclusion, we must ensure that we are engaged primarily in a business other than investing, reinvesting or trading of securities and that our activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading “investment securities” constituting more than 40% of our assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Our business will be to identify and consummate a business transaction and thereafter to operate the acquired business or assets for the long term. We do not plan to buy businesses or assets with a view to resale or profit from their resale. We do not plan to buy unrelated businesses or assets or to be a passive investor. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may only be invested in United States government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in United States government treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to the trust agreement, the trustee is not permitted to invest in other securities or assets. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, and by having a business plan targeted at acquiring, growing and businesses for the long term (rather than on buying and selling businesses in the manner of a merchant bank or private equity fund), we intend to avoid being deemed an “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. An investment in our securities is not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities or investment securities. The trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business transaction; or (ii) absent a business transaction, our return of the funds held in the trust account to our public shareholders as part of our redemption of public shares. If we do not invest the proceeds as discussed above, we may be deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not accounted. 13 In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to enter into insolvent liquidation or a petition for winding up is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by shareholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or insolvency laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a court could seek to recover all amounts received by our shareholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public shareholders promptly after the termination of our existence by operation of law, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public shareholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. Claims may be brought against us for these reasons. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the share of common stock underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, a registration statement may not be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if we have an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such common stock and such common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. We may not be able to maintain an effective registration statement covering the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Factors such as an unexpected inability to remain current in our SEC reporting obligations or other material developments concerning our business could present difficulties in maintaining an effective registration statement and a current prospectus. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. If we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and the warrants could expire worthless. We may not be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market enterprise value of the target business or that the price we are paying for the target business is fair to our shareholders. Unless we consummate a business transaction with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that either the target business we select has a certain fair market enterprise value at the time of our signing a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business transaction or that the price we are paying is fair to our shareholders unless our board of directors is not able to independently determine that a target business (or businesses) has a sufficient fair market enterprise value or there is a conflict of interest with respect to the transaction. The fair market enterprise value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If no opinion is obtained, our shareholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business transaction, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 200,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.0001 par value per share. Depending upon the requirements of the target business or asset, and the amount of funds available to us from the trust account following any payments to holders redeeming their common stock, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business transaction. The target’s preference in receiving cash, stock or a blend of cash and stock as consideration for the business transaction may be driven by the target’s desire for working capital, cash in-hand or control of the post-transaction entity. Any such additional securities will not have a claim against the trust account, will not participate in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account and will not reduce the per-share redemption price to below $10.10. To the extent the value of the target business or asset exceeds the value of the funds held in our trust account, it is likely that we would issue additional shares, incur debt, or a combination of cash, shares and debt to complete such business transaction. We cannot assure you whether or not we may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business transaction because we have not identified a target business or asset, do not know what industry such ultimate target will be operating in and do not know the amount of funds that will ultimately be available to us to complete our business transaction. The issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities: 14 ● may significantly reduce the equity interest of our current shareholders; ● may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our shares of common stock; ● may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and ● may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock. To the extent we have funds remaining in our trust account following the consummation of a business transaction, those funds may be used for any purpose agreed to between us and the target business or asset based upon the needs of the post transaction entity, including but not limited to, working capital, debt repayment or employee compensation. Substantial resources could be expended in researching initial business transactions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate an initial business transaction. We anticipate the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other third party fees and expenses. If we decide not to enter into an agreement with respect to a specific proposed initial business transaction we have investigated, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such resources expended in connection with a proposed business transaction that is not consummated will result in a loss to us of the related costs, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate a business transaction. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business transaction. Certain of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. 15 Certain of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities that are similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors have been principals of, or affiliated or associated with, other blank check companies, and/or may in the future become, affiliated with additional entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Due to these existing affiliations, our officers and directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see “Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Conflicts of Interest.” Our management may negotiate fees, employment, consulting or similar types of agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business transaction. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business transaction and, as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business transaction is in the best interest of our public shareholders. Our management may not be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business transaction unless they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with a business transaction. If, as a condition to a potential initial business transaction, our existing officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business transaction, or to be paid fees, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business transaction and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business transaction. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business transaction will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business transaction. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business transaction, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business transaction that our existing officers and directors remain if it is believed to be in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business transaction. We will only have a limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. We intend to closely scrutinize the management of the target business; however, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect our operations. We may engage in a business transaction with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our sponsors, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. We may engage in a business transaction with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) with our sponsors, directors or officers, provided that we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that may or may not be a member of FINRA that the business transaction is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view, which may raise potential conflicts. Also, the completion of a business transaction between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. 16 Since our directors or their affiliates will lose their entire investment in us if a business transaction is not consummated and may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation and our officers and directors have significant financial interests in us, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for our initial business transaction. Our directors and their affiliates own 1,200,000 shares of our shares of common stock that will be worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction. In addition, they own warrants exercisable for our shares of common stock that will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction. In addition, their earnout shares (equal to 5.0% of our issued and outstanding shares) will be subject to forfeiture as follows: (i) 2.5% of our issued and outstanding shares will be subject to forfeiture in the event the last sales price of our stock does not equal or exceed $14.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period within 36 months following the closing of our initial business transaction and (ii) 2.5% of our issued and outstanding shares will be subject to forfeiture in the event the last sales price of our stock does not equal or exceed $11.50 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period within 36 months following the closing of our initial business transaction. Also, in the event we enter into an automatic redemption pursuant to our amended articles of incorporation, our sponsors have agreed to advance us the entire amount of the funds necessary to complete any voluntary liquidation (currently anticipated to be no more than approximately $20,000) and have agreed not to seek repayment for such expenses. The personal and financial interests of our officers or directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business transaction and completing an initial business transaction. Consequently, the discretion of our officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business transaction may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular initial business transaction are appropriate and in the best interest of our public shareholders. The requirement that we complete a business transaction by February 14, 2013 may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business transaction that is not in the best interests of shareholders. Each of our officers and directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by him in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business transactions. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money held outside of the trust account. In the event that we do not effect a business transaction by February 14, 2013, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust account will not be repaid and we will liquidate. On the other hand, if we complete a business transaction within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers and directors may have an incentive to complete a business transaction which may not be in the best interest of our shareholders. We are not limited to a particular industry or geographic area and may acquire a business operating in an industry that is beyond the expertise of our management. Our efforts in identifying a prospective target business is not limited to any particular industry or geographic area, although we initially are focusing our efforts on acquiring a target business operating in the international maritime shipping, offshore and related maritime services industries. Our management will not rule out pursuing attractive business opportunities in any geographic location or industry, even if such location or industry is outside our areas of expertise, if our management determines that such business transaction is in the best interests of our company and shareholders. Should a favorable business opportunity present itself in an industry or area that is outside of our management’s expertise, our ability to assess the growth potential, financial condition, experience and skill of incumbent management, competitive position, regulatory environment and other criteria in evaluating such a business opportunity may be adversely affected. If we determine to acquire a prospective target business which is outside of the expertise of our management, no assurance can be given that we will be able to complete such an acquisition, and an unsuccessful attempt to do so could result in redemption of funds to public shareholders from the trust account and, if applicable, our subsequent entry into a voluntary liquidation. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of the value of the trust account, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 17 Our officers, directors, securityholders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, securityholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours. We will probably complete only one business transaction with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the insider warrants, meaning our operations will depend on a single business and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several transactions. Our initial public offering and the private placement of insider warrants provided us with net proceeds of $47,900,000 (excluding $480,000 in deferred underwriter commissions and $100,000 of deferred legal fees) that we may use to complete a business transaction. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, notice disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market enterprise value of the remaining target businesses in the combination. Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business transaction than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of shares of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only one business transaction with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business transactions, or that operate in diversified industries or industry segments. We may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business transaction. We may structure a business transaction to acquire less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but will not acquire less than a controlling interest. We will acquire a controlling interest either through the acquisition of at least 50.1% of the voting equity interests in the target or through the acquisition of a significant voting equity interest that enables us to exercise a greater degree of control over the target than any other person or group. However, other minority shareholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company’s issued shares than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that we will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. Unlike other blank check companies, we allow our public shareholders holding approximately 88% of the common stock sold in our initial public offering to exercise their redemption rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business transaction with which a substantial majority of our shareholders do not agree. We will proceed with our initial business transaction unless holders of more than approximately 88% of our common stock redeem their common stock; however, should we be required to retain a minimum amount in the trust account by the target company, we may be unable to consummate our initial business transaction even if holders of less than approximately 88% of our common stock elect to redeem. The approximately 88% redemption threshold is different from the redemption thresholds used by most blank check companies. Traditionally, blank check companies would not be able to consummate a business transaction if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business transaction and elected to redeem more than a much smaller percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold is typically between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business transactions because the amount of shares voted by their public shareholders electing redemption exceeded the maximum redemption threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with a business transaction. As a result, we may be able to consummate a business transaction even though a substantial majority of our public shareholders entitled to vote do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, solely if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business transaction, and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our sponsors, officers or directors. In addition, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of a proposed business transaction. See “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Effecting a Business Transaction” for additional information. 18 The redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of a proposed business transaction and as a result, the number of shares of common stock that you may ultimately be able to redeem may be significantly lower than the foregoing redemption threshold amounts. We will consummate our initial business transaction only if holders of no more than approximately 88% of our common stock elect to redeem their common stock; however, should we be required to retain a minimum amount in the trust account by the target company, we may be unable to consummate our initial business transaction even if holders of less than approximately 88% of our common stock elect to redeem. The redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of a proposed business transaction. For example, the proposed business transaction may require: (i) cash consideration to be paid to the target or members of its management team, (ii) cash to be transferred to the target for working capital or other general corporate purposes or (iii) the allocation of cash to satisfy other conditions in accordance with the terms of the proposed business transaction. As a result, the number of shares of common stock that you may ultimately be able to redeem may be significantly lower than the foregoing redemption threshold amounts. The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than past blank check company offerings; accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants issued in our initial public offering is higher than the exercise price of warrants issued in past blank check company offerings. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the offering; however, the exercise price of our warrants is $11.50 per share. As a result of this increased exercise price, it is less likely the intrinsic value of the public warrants will ever be positive (i.e. “in the money”), which means they are more likely to expire worthless. The ability of a larger number of our shareholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business transaction or optimize our capital structure. In connection with the consummation of our business transaction, we may redeem pursuant to a tender offer up to approximately 88% of our common stock. If our business transaction requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, the number of shares of common stock we will redeem may be further reduced. For example, the proposed business transaction may require: (i) cash consideration to be paid to the target or members of its management team, (ii) cash to be transferred to the target for working capital or other general corporate purposes or (iii) the allocation of cash to satisfy other conditions in accordance with the terms of the proposed business transaction. In the event the aggregate cash consideration we would be required to pay for all shares of common stock that are validly tendered plus any amount required to satisfy cash conditions pursuant to the terms of the proposed business transaction exceeds the aggregate amount of cash available to us, we will not consummate the business transaction and any common stock tendered pursuant to the tender offer will be returned to the holders thereof following the expiration of the tender offer. Alternatively, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business transaction in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business transaction available to us. 19 The requirement that we maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash could increase the probability that our business transaction would be unsuccessful and that you would have to wait for liquidation in order to redeem your common stock. If, pursuant to the terms of our proposed business transaction, we are required to maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash in trust in order to consummate the business transaction and regardless of whether we proceed with redemptions under the tender or proxy rules, the probability that our business transaction would be unsuccessful is increased. If our business transaction is unsuccessful, you would not receive your pro rata portion of the trust account until we liquidate. If you are in need of immediate liquidity, you could attempt to sell your shares in the open market; however, at such time our common stock may trade at a discount to the pro rata amount in our trust account. In either situation, you may suffer a material loss on your investment or lose the benefit of funds expected in connection with our redemption until we liquidate or you are able to sell your common stock in the open market. In order to effectuate a business transaction, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. In order to effectuate a business transaction, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their constitutional documents and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of business transaction, increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have agreed not to take any actions that would affect the substance and timing of our obligation to redeem our public shares. Unlike most other blank check companies, the provisions of our amended articles of incorporation may be amended with the approval of 65% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Most blank check companies have a provision in their constitutional documents which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business transaction activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s shareholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public shareholders. Our amended articles of incorporation provides that the provisions specifically related to redemption of your shares in connection with (i) a tender offer or shareholder vote, in the case of a business transaction, or (ii) upon our winding-down, in the case of our not consummating an initial business transaction by February 14, 2013, can only be amended with the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-five percent (65%) of all then outstanding shares of common stock and all other provisions may be amended if approved by the holders of at least a majority of all then outstanding shares of common stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have agreed not to take any actions that would affect the substance and timing of our obligation to redeem our public shares. If we amend any of these provisions, public shareholders voting against the adoption of such amendment will be entitled to exercise their redemption rights and receive a pro rata portion of the trust account, less taxes and any interest earned on the proceeds placed in the trust account actually withdrawn for working capital purposes. Our sponsors and directors control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our sponsors and directors own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants held by our sponsors and subsequently exercised), could allow our sponsors and directors to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the business transaction and election of directors. Unlike other blank check companies, our sponsors and directors have no requirement to vote with the majority of the public shareholders which are entitled to vote and, therefore, may have a significant influence on the approval of an initial business transaction, which may not be in your best interest. Additionally, our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to re-elect existing directors or elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business transaction, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business transaction. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsors and directors, because of their ownership positions, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of an election of directors. The interests of our sponsors and directors and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our shareholders which are entitled to vote, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. 20 We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business transaction or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient to complete a business transaction, either because of the size of the business transaction, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to pay cash for a significant number of shares redeemed, we will be required to seek additional financing. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business transaction, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business transaction and seek an alternative target business candidate. None of our officers, directors or shareholders are required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business transaction. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the outstanding warrants (excluding any insider warrants held by our sponsors or their permitted assigns) issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption, and if, and only if, the last sales price of our shares of common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants we have an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such shares of common stock is available. We will likely redeem the warrants if the market price of our shares of common stock reaches $17.50 per share for the necessary trading period, since doing so would allow us to decrease the dilutive effect of the warrants. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to exercise the warrants, whether by paying the exercise price in cash or through a cashless exercise at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to us. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to pay the exercise price of their warrants in cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described elsewhere in this report have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” “Cashless exercise” means the warrant holder pays the exercise price by giving up some of the shares, for which the warrant is being exercised, with those shares valued at the then current market price. Accordingly, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for: that number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the fair market value by (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average reported last sales price of our shares of common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. For example, if the holder is exercising 1,200 public warrants at $11.50 per share through a cashless exercise when the shares of common stock has a fair market value per share of $17.50 per share, then upon the cashless exercise, the holder will receive 411 shares of common stock. The holder would have received 1,200 shares of common stock if the exercise price was paid in cash. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company because the warrant holder will hold a smaller number of shares of common stock upon a cashless exercise of the warrants they hold. 21 Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business transaction. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 4,800,000 shares of common stock. In addition, we sold to our initial shareholders insider warrants to purchase up to 3,108,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of our capital stock to effect a business transaction; the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the capital stock issued to complete the business transaction. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business transaction or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of shares of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the shares of common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of shares of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of shares of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the shares of common stock issuable upon such exercise are not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. If we redeem our public warrants, our non-redeemable private placement warrants could provide the purchasers thereof with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: ● in whole and not in part, ● at a price of $0.01 per warrant at any time after the warrants become exercisable, ● upon not less than 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, and ● if, and only if, the last sales price of our shares of common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. 22 As a result of the private placement warrants not being subject to the redemption feature that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the private placement warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of 65% of the then outstanding public warrants in order to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in an adverse way to a holder if 65% of the holders of the public warrants approve of such amendment. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. Since we have a market capitalization of less than $75 million, Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (added as part of the Dodd-Frank Act) exempts us from the requirement that we have such system of internal controls audited. If no further action is taken by Congress or the SEC, at such time as we exceed a market capitalization of $75 million, we will be required to comply with such audit requirement. Further, if we generally fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or shareholder litigation and any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Regardless of value and sophistication (if privately held) or market capitalization (if public), there can be no assurances a target company will be in compliance with all the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business transaction may be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business transaction, a proposed target business may be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or International GAAP, and audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If we decide to seek shareholder approval, the U.S. proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business transaction include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure. In the event we did not have a shareholder vote, we would include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not it is required under the tender offer rules. Thus, to the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, GAAP or International GAAP, and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we may not be able to complete a business transaction with that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may complete a business transaction. Furthermore, to the extent that we seek to acquire a target business that does not have financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, or International GAAP, it could make it more difficult for our management to analyze such target business. It could also delay our preparation of our Form 6-K or our proxy statement in the event we are required to seek shareholder approval and which we will send to shareholders relating to the proposed business transaction with such a target business, thereby making it more difficult for us to consummate such a business transaction. 23 As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to rely on exemptions from certain Nasdaq Capital Market corporate governance standards and other Exchange Act requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our securities. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Marshall Islands, does not require the implementation of certain Nasdaq Capital Market corporate governance standards. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market may provide less protection than is accorded to investors under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules applicable to domestic issuers. We may elect to follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of our audit committee, the involvement of independent directors in the process for nominating directors, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, the scheduling of executive sessions, the availability and content of a code of conduct and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the Nasdaq Capital Market requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). As a foreign private issuer, we will also be exempt from those rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will be exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we will not be required under the Exchange Act to file quarterly and current reports with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. issuers. Further, we will be exempt from detailed disclosure regarding executive compensation and compensation philosophy and we may prepare our financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board without reconciliation to GAAP and we will be exempt from the disclosure guidelines of Regulation FD. We may also have: (i) a nonmanagement employee on our audit committee, (ii) a two tiered board system consisting of a management board and a supervisory/nonmanagement board and our supervisory/nonmanagement board may be designated as the audit committee, (iii) one member of our audit committee may be a stockholder, representative of a stockholder or stockholder group, owning more than 50% of our voting securities, subject to certain conditions and (iv) a representative of a foreign government or foreign governmental entity may be a member of our audit committee. If we fail to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment, adversely affect our ability to raise needed funds and subject us to additional trading restrictions and regulations. Our common stock and warrants are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a national securities exchange. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. On January 11, 2013, we received a letter from Nasdaq, which stated a determination by Nasdaq that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirement to maintain a minimum of 300 public holders under Nasdaq Rule 5550(a)(3). However, based on a review by the Nasdaq staff of information submitted by us relating to the Acquisition, the Nasdaq staff granted us an extension of time, until February 15, 2013, to complete such Acquisition and to demonstrate compliance with all the requirements for initial listing, and in particular the requirement to maintain a minimum of 300 public holders, following the business combination as described in Listing Rule IM-5101-2. To our knowledge, the only initial listing requirement that we may not be in compliance with upon the closing of the Acquisition is the requirement to maintain a minimum of 300 public holders. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, we will be required to liquidate if we cannot consummate the acquisition of Assetplus or another business combination prior to February 14, 2013. With the extension granted by Nasdaq, it is expected that our common stock will continue to be listed on Nasdaq during such period. 24 As mentioned above, if and when we consummate the Acquisition, we are required to comply with Nasdaq’s initial listing standards, which are more rigorous than Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to meet those listing requirements. If we fail to meet all applicable Nasdaq requirements and Nasdaq delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we expect our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets.” If this were to occur, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ● a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ● reduced liquidity for our securities; ● a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; ● a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and ● a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Furthermore, The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (“NSMIA”), which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Because our common stock and warrants are listed on Nasdaq, they are covered securities for the purpose of NSMIA. If our securities were no longer listed on Nasdaq and therefore not “covered securities”, we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after our consummation of a business transaction, and if our shareholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of a business transaction, they may attempt to force us to hold one. We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after we consummate our initial business transaction. Until we hold an annual meeting of shareholders, public shareholders may not be afforded the opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management. If our shareholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of a business transaction, they may attempt to force us to hold one since holders of not less than 10% of the shares entitled to vote in an election of directors may, in writing, demand the call of a special meeting specifying the time thereof, which shall not be less than two nor more than three months from the date of such call in accordance with Section 64(3) of the BCA. The grant of registration rights to our sponsors and directors may make it more difficult to complete our initial business transaction, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. Our sponsors, directors and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the initial shares and the insider warrants purchased by them, and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants. These registration rights will be exercisable prior to their release from lockup but any such registration statement so filed will not accelerate the transfer and sale restrictions until after the respective lockup periods. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If our initial shareholders exercise their registration rights in full, there will be an additional 1,200,000 shares of common stock and up to 3,108,000 shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the insider warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business transaction more costly or difficult to conclude because the shareholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our shares of common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our sponsors and directors are registered. 25 Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business transaction opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business transaction. We have encountered intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the consummation of a transaction may be delayed if we choose to seek shareholder approval of a business transaction. Also, our obligation to pay cash for the common stock redeemed in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business transaction. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business transaction. An active market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Our securities are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to our reports of operating losses, one or more potential business transactions, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and general market and economic conditions. An active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. In addition, the price of the securities after the offering can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. Additionally, if our securities become delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason, and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities, the liquidity and price of our securities may be more limited than if we were quoted or listed on a the Nasdaq Capital Market or a national exchange. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established or sustained. 26 If our shares of common stock are delisted from Nasdaq and become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If our shares of common stock are delisted from Nasdaq and become subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our shares of common stock have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to these “penny stock” rules. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: ● make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; ● receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; ● provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; ● obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed; and ● cancel the purchase transaction in violation of the “penny stock” rules and return the investor’s money. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder of our common stock or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Because we are a blank check company, with no past or current active business, we believe that we have been a PFIC since our inception. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse U.S. federal tax consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then highest rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. See below under “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we continue to be treated as a PFIC. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. 27 International and political events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may enter into an initial business transaction with a non-U.S. entity and, accordingly, a significant portion of our post business transaction revenue may be derived from non-U.S. operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Operations in countries other than the U.S. are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: ● expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; ● political and economic instability; ● civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; ● natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; ● inflation; ● currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; ● confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; ● governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; ● governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and ● governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many countries in which we may operate, our revenue and profits may be subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Our facilities and our employees could come under threat of attack in some countries where we may operate. In addition, we may become subject to the risk related to loss of life of our personnel and our subcontractors in these areas. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the U.S. may fail to comply with applicable laws. After a business transaction, it is likely that a majority of our directors and officers will live outside the United States and all of our assets will be located outside the United States; therefore investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. It is likely that after a business transaction, a majority of our directors and officers will reside outside of the United States and a majority of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult, or in some cases not possible, for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon all of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties on our directors and officers under United States laws. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business transaction, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with a business transaction, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from the Republic of the Marshall Islands to another jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of our business will likely subject us to foreign regulation. 28 Our amended articles of incorporation permit the board of directors to create additional classes of securities, including shares with rights, preferences, designations and limitations as they determine which may have an anti-takeover effect. Our amended articles of incorporation permits the board of directors to designate rights, preferences, designations and limitations attaching to the preferred stock as they determine in their discretion, without shareholder approval, with respect to their terms or issuance. However, we have agreed with our underwriters not to issue preferred stock which participates in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or which votes as a class with the common stock on a business transaction, prior to the consummation of our business transaction. If issued, the rights, preferences, designations and limitations of the preferred stock would be set by the board of directors and could operate to the disadvantage of the outstanding shares of common stock. Such terms could include, among others, preferences as to dividends and distributions on liquidation, or could be used to prevent possible corporate takeovers. Any such additional securities will not have a claim against the trust account, will not participate in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account and will not reduce the per-share redemption price to below $10.10. Risks Associated with the Shipping Industry If charter rates fluctuate and the shipping industry continues to undergo cyclical turns, it may have a negative impact on our profitability and operations following consummation of the Transaction. The shipping business, including the dry cargo market, has been cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. A significant contraction in demand for imported commodities, such as iron ore or coal, as a result of economic downturns or changes in government policies in certain regional markets could have a material adverse impact on freight rates, as well as the demand, in general for vessels. For instance, a downturn in the economy of countries such as China, which has experienced substantial global economic growth during the past few years, could negatively affect the shipping industry. The demand for cargo vessels is also greatly affected by the demand for consumer goods and perishable foods, dry bulk commodities and bagged and finished products, as well as commodity prices, environmental concerns and competition. The supply of shipping capacity is also a function of the delivery of new vessels and the number of older vessels scrapped, in lay-up, converted to other uses, reactivated or removed from active service. Supply may also be affected by maritime transportation and other types of governmental regulation, including that of international authorities. These and other factors may cause a decrease in the demand for the services we may ultimately provide. As a result, the operations of any prospective target business we may ultimately complete a business transaction with may be adversely affected. Changes in the shipping industry may reduce the demand for the types of vessels we seek to acquire or the services we may ultimately provide and thereby reduce our profitability. The future demand for vessels in the markets in which we may ultimately operate will be dependent, in large part, upon economic growth in the global economy, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Adverse economic, political, social or other negative developments could have a material adverse effect on the business that we may ultimately complete a business transaction with. Many of the markets in which vessels operate have been characterized by oversupply. This is frequently the result of an overestimated growth in demand for these vessels in the applicable shipping markets. For example, an oversupply of vessels carrying bulk cargo may be due to, among other factors, an overestimation in the demand for imports of bulk commodities like grain, sugar, iron ore or coal. While it is our intention to complete a business transaction with a target business that operates in a market that will afford the greatest value for the vessels that we ultimately own and operate, we cannot assure you we will be able to successfully acquire a business that provides the valuable market we seek, or that the value of the vessels we ultimately acquire will maintain their value in any of these markets. Operating results may be subject to seasonal fluctuations. 29 The shipping industry has historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. For example, the dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, revenues are typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended July 31 and October 31, and, conversely, typically stronger in fiscal quarters ended January 31 and April 30. If we experience a catastrophic loss and our insurance is not adequate to cover such loss, it could have a material adverse affect on our operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, vessel and cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic marine disaster, including environmental accidents and collisions. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on any vessels and other business assets we may acquire upon completion of a business transaction. However, we cannot assure you we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts before they will pay claims, and insurance policies may contain limitations and exclusions, which may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any increase in environmental and other regulations may also result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims, or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental, safety and other governmental regulations and our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines and restrictions on our operations. The operation of vessels is subject to extensive and changing environmental protection, safety and other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties, compliance with which may entail significant expense, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. We cannot assure you we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business transaction. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, it could result in the imposition of penalties and fines against us, and could also result in the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. Furthermore, the costs of compliance also could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. For a more complete discussion of the government regulations applicable to the shipping industry, please see the section entitled “Information on the Company— Business Overview — Government, Environmental and Other Regulations” below. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, as well the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining and offshore drilling platforms and other efforts to disrupt offshore production of oil and natural gas, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other persons may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, and in many circumstances a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by “arresting” a vessel through court processes. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s lien has arisen, but also any “associated” vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. If any vessel ultimately owned and operated by us is “arrested”, this could result in a material loss of revenues, or require us to pay substantial amounts to have the “arrest” lifted. 30 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although Assetplus has arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Governments could requisition vessels of a target company during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition a company’s vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. The amount and timing of payment a target company would be entitled to as compensation in the event of a requisition of any of its vessels would be uncertain. We may become subject to additional governmental regulations Government regulations and laws significantly affect the ownership and operation of vessels. If we consummate our initial business transaction within the international maritime shipping, offshore and related maritime services industries, or acquire a vessel, we may become subject to international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the countries in which any vessels we acquire may operate or be registered and compliance with such laws, regulations and other requirements may entail significant expense. 31 If we acquire a business that charters vessels on the spot market, it may increase our risk of doing business following the business transaction. We may complete a business transaction with a business that involves the chartering of vessels on a spot charter basis, either on voyage charters or short-term charters of less than 12 months’ duration. Although dependence on spot charters is not unusual in the shipping industry, the spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates are subject to significant fluctuations based upon available charters and the supply of and demand for seaborne shipping capacity. If we focus on the spot charter market, we may be required to consistently procure spot charter business. We cannot assure you that spot charters will be available at rates that will be sufficient to enable us to operate our business profitably. In addition, our dependence on the spot charter market may result in lower utilization of our vessels and consequently decreased profitability. We cannot assure you that rates in the spot charter market will not decline, that charters in the spot charter market will continue to be available or that our dependence on the spot charter market will not result in generally lower overall utilization or decreased profitability, the occurrence of any of which events could affect our ability to service our debt during these periods. If a target company has or obtains a vessel that is of second-hand or older nature, it could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. We believe competition for employment of second-hand vessels may be intense. Additionally, second-hand vessels may carry no warranties from sellers with respect to their condition, as compared to warranties available from shipyards for newly-constructed vessels, and may be subject to problems created by the use of their original owners. If we purchase any second-hand vessels, we may incur additional expenditures as a result of these risks, which may reduce our profitability. While it will be our intention to sell or retire our vessels before they are considered older vessels, under shipping standards, in the rare case where we continue to own and operate a vessel for a longer period, we could be faced with the additional expenditures necessary to maintain a vessel in good operating condition as the age of a vessel increases. Moreover, port-state authorities in certain jurisdictions may demand that repairs be made to this type of vessel before allowing it to berth at or depart a particular port, even though that vessel may be in class and in compliance with all relevant international maritime conventions. Should any of these types of problems or changes develop, income may be lost if a vessel goes off-hire and additional unforeseen and unbudgeted expenses may be incurred. If we choose to maintain any vessels past the age that we have planned, we cannot assure you that market conditions will justify expenditures with respect to any of the foregoing or enable us to operate these vessels profitably. If we acquire assets, such as a vessel, we may not have the benefit of historical financial data on which to base future financial performance. If we complete a business transaction which involves the acquisition of one or more vessels, we do not anticipate that we will be able to rely on historical financial data specific to any vessel, as this information is not routinely maintained within the normal course of business within the shipping industry. Historical financial data of a vessel is often unavailable, irrespective of whether a vessel has a time charter employment. Accordingly, if we acquire a vessel, there may no historical financial data available upon which you can rely, or upon on which we can base the vessel’s future financial performance. Management services relating to a target company’s vessels may be performed by management companies that are affiliates of our officers and directors which could result in potential conflicts of interest. If we complete a business transaction which involves the acquisition of vessels, we anticipate engaging the services of one or more management companies to provide technical and management services relating to the operation of such vessels. Whether or not members of our existing management remain our officers or directors post business transaction, it is possible these management services will be performed by management companies controlled by one or more of our initial shareholders, officers or directors (for example, by acting as our fleet’s technical managers and performing all commercial management functions). The management companies may receive fees and commissions on gross revenue received by us in respect of each vessel managed, a commission on the gross sale or purchase price of vessels which we purchase or sell, and a commission on all insurance placed. If members of our existing management remain as members of management following a business transaction, the relationships between our officers and directors and the applicable management companies may give rise to conflicts of interest between us on the one hand and the management companies on the other. In addition, some of our officers and directors also may hold senior management positions with one or more of these management companies. In light of their positions, these individuals may experience conflicts of interest in selecting between our interests and those of the applicable management companies. Because certain financial information will be required to be provided to our shareholders in connection with a proposed business transaction, prospective target businesses may be limited. 32 