Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below in evaluating an investment in the Company’s common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company, or which the Company currently deems not material, also may adversely impact the Company’s business operations. The value or market price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with Our Growth Strategy We may not be able to implement aspects of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy contemplates the future expansion of our business and operations both organically and by acquisitions such as through the establishment or acquisition of banks and banking offices in our market area and other markets in the Carolinas and Virginia. Implementing these aspects of our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully identify acquisition opportunities and strategic partners that will complement our operating philosophy and to successfully integrate their operations with ours as well as generate loans and deposits of acceptable risk and expense. To successfully acquire or establish banks or banking offices, we must be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets, as well as attract the necessary relationships and high caliber banking personnel to make these new banking offices profitable. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion, or if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate these new operations into our business. As consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We will compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We cannot assure you that we will have opportunities to acquire other financial institutions or acquire or establish any new branches or loan production offices, or that we will be able to negotiate, finance and complete any opportunities available to us. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Future expansion involves risks. The acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions, or the establishment of de novo branch offices and loan production offices involves a number of risks, including the risk that: • we may incur substantial costs in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local managers, and opening new offices; • our estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate; • the institutions we acquire may have distressed assets and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the value we predict from those assets or that we will make sufficient provisions or have sufficient capital for future losses; • we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment, or other charges related to the institutions we acquire that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations; • there may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition or opening a new office and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition, or the financing we obtain may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or result in dilution to our existing shareholders; • our management’s attention in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from our existing business and we may not be able to successfully integrate such operations and personnel; • we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition; • we may enter new markets where we lack local experience or which introduce new risks to our operations, or which otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; • we may introduce new products and services we are not equipped to manage or which introduce new risks to our operations, or which otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; • we may incur intangible assets in connection with an acquisition, or the intangible assets we incur may become impaired, which results in adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; • we may assume liabilities in connection with an acquisition, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; or • we may lose key employees and clients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any banking offices that we acquire into our operations or retain the clients of those offices. If any of these risks occur in connection with our expansion efforts, it may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain and manage our organic growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have grown rapidly since we commenced operations in October 2006, and our modified business strategy contemplates significant acceleration in such growth, both organically and through acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits or in introducing new products and services at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with our historical or modified organic growth strategy. We may be unable to continue to increase our volume of loans and deposits or to introduce new products and services at acceptable risk levels for a variety of reasons, including an inability to maintain capital and liquidity sufficient to support continued growth. If we are successful in continuing our growth, we cannot assure you that further growth would offer the same levels of potential profitability or that we would be successful in controlling costs and maintaining asset quality. Accordingly, an inability to maintain growth, or our inability to effectively manage our growth, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents New bank office facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to organically expand into new markets that are profitable for our franchise. The costs to start up new bank branches and loan production offices in new markets, other than through acquisitions, and the additional costs to operate these facilities would increase our noninterest expense and may decrease our earnings. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage our growth through the establishment of bank branches or loan production offices in new markets. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our expansion into any such new markets will successfully attract enough new business to offset the expenses of their operation. If we are not able to do so, our earnings would be negatively impacted. Acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities may expose us to intangible asset risk which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with any acquisitions, as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we will record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, and, as such, acquisitions may result in our recording intangible assets, including deposit intangibles and goodwill. We will perform a goodwill valuation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment. Impairment testing is a two step process that first compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and second measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may significantly affect the fair value of any goodwill and may trigger impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will expand our business and operations to other markets in the Carolinas and Virginia. We intend to primarily target market areas which we believe possess attractive demographic, economic or competitive characteristics. To expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. Competition for qualified personnel in the markets in which we may expand may be intense, and there may be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the commercial banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from other banks or be unable to do so at a reasonable cost. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may need additional access to capital, which we may be unable to obtain on attractive terms or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, for future growth, or to fund losses or additional provision for loan losses in the future. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 16 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Business The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we remain well capitalized and have not suffered from liquidity issues, we are operating in an economic environment that remains challenging and uncertain. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we could be affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including continued job losses, could have an adverse affect on our borrowers, or their clients, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an extended deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets and target markets could drive losses beyond those which are or will be provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following consequences: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures; • decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position; • decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce clients’ borrowing power; and • decreases in our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to continue to be adversely affected. Our estimated allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The determination of the allowance for loan losses, which represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio, involves a high degree of judgment and complexity. Our policy is to establish reserves for estimated losses on delinquent and other problem loans when it is determined that losses are expected to be incurred on such loans. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on various factors, including an evaluation of the portfolio, current economic conditions, the volume and type of lending conducted by us, composition of the portfolio, the amount of our classified assets, seasoning of the loan portfolio, the status of past due principal and interest payments and other relevant factors. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on our financial statements. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. The risks inherent in our loan portfolio have been exacerbated by the negative developments in the financial markets and the economy in general, and additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. We significantly increased our allowance for loan losses in 2010. However, no assurance can be given that the allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and we may experience losses in our loan portfolio or perceive adverse conditions and trends that may require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our nonperforming assets totaled approximately $42.2 million, or 6.84% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our earnings in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well write-downs from time to time, as appropriate, of the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly and as a result our earnings may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our concentration in loans secured by real estate, particularly commercial real estate and construction and development, may increase our loan losses. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer, and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market areas. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. At December 31, 2010, approximately 86% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral and includes a significant portion of loans secured by commercial real estate and construction and development collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Over the past year, real estate values in our market areas have declined and may continue to decline. Continued declines in real estate values expose us to further deterioration in the value of the collateral for all loans secured by real estate and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans, particularly when there is a downturn in the business cycle. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner’s business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located, each of which could increase the likelihood of default on the loan. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Banking regulators are examining commercial real estate lending activity with heightened scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: general or local economic conditions; environmental cleanup liability; neighborhood values; interest rates; real estate tax rates; operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; supply of and demand for rental units or properties; ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; zoning laws; governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating income producing real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. We maintain a number of large lending relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if our borrowers were not to perform according to the terms of these loans. We maintain a number of large lending relationships. Our ten largest lending relationships (including aggregate exposure to guarantors) at December 31, 2010, range from $6.2 million to $9.6 million and averaged $7.7 million. One of these lending relationships, representing $6.2 million in loans, was included in nonperforming loans at December 31, 2010. The deterioration of one or more additional large relationship loans could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents As a result of our limited operating history, our loan portfolio is unseasoned. Our loan portfolio consists of loans made by us since we began operations in October 2006. It is difficult to assess the future performance of our loan portfolio due to the recent origination of our loans. Industry experience shows that in most cases it takes several years for loan difficulties to become apparent. At December 31, 2010, 48 loans, with a combined outstanding balance of $40.9 million, were classified as nonaccrual (generally, loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest, for which terms are renegotiated below market levels in response to a financially distressed borrower or guarantor, or where substantial doubt about full repayment of principal or interest is evident). At December 31, 2010, we had loans totaling $73.3 million on our watch list, including the $40.9 million in nonaccrual loans. We can give no assurance that other loans, including the remaining loans on our watch list, will not become nonperforming or delinquent, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our reliance on time deposits, including out-of-market and brokered certificates of deposit, as a source of funds for loans and our other liquidity needs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on deposits for funds to make loans and provide for our other liquidity needs. Our loan demand has exceeded the rate at which we have been able to build core deposits. As a result, we have relied heavily on time deposits, especially brokered certificates of deposit, as a source of funds. Although we have focused recently on decreasing our reliance on brokered deposits, as of December 31, 2010, brokered deposits and other wholesale sources comprised approximately 29.01% of our total liabilities. Such deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract or keep them or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to replace these deposits as they mature would adversely affect our liquidity. Additionally, we are regulated by the FDIC, which requires us to maintain certain capital levels to be considered well capitalized. If we fail to maintain these capital levels, we would lose our ability to obtain funding through brokered deposits, absent receipt of a waiver from the FDIC. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our interest margin and results of operations. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the increased level of recent bank failures may lead to regulatory changes that may adversely affect our operations and results. Recent negative developments in the credit markets and in the general economy have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the current economic downturn continuing throughout 2011. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years, and the high rate at which banks have been placed in federal receivership during 2009 and 2010 is unprecedented. As a result, there is a potential for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The FDIC deposit insurance assessments that we are required to pay may increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessments are required to ensure that the FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio is at least 1.15% of insured deposits, and the Dodd-Frank Act requires this reserve ratio to increase to 1.35% by 2020. The recent failures of several financial institutions have significantly increased the DIF’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. 19 Table of Contents In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied a special assessment on insured depository institutions equal to 5 basis points of the institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the DIF on December 31, 2009. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Furthermore, the FDIC announced a proposed rule on April 13, 2010, that, if adopted, would alter the initial and total base assessment rates applicable to all insured depository institutions effective January 1, 2011, with actual total assessment rates being set 3 basis points higher than the rates in effect on January 1, 2010, in accordance with the Amended Restoration Plan that the FDIC adopted on September 29, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act has changed the formula for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments are calculated as a percentage of average total consolidated assets less average tangible equity during the assessment period, rather than as a percentage of total deposits. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred approximately $648,000 and $900,000, respectively, in deposit insurance expense. Due to the recent increases in the assessment rates, and the potential for additional increases due to proposed FDIC rules, as well as our growth strategy, we may be required to pay additional amounts to the DIF. If the deposit insurance premium assessment rate applicable to us increases again, whether because of our risk classification, because of emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase or prepayment requirements, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. Recent legislation and administrative actions authorizing the U.S. government to take direct actions within the financial services industry may not stabilize the U.S. financial system. Numerous actions have been taken by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, was enacted on October 3, 2008. Under EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions and purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets and mortgages from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act reduced the size of that program, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, from $700 billion to $475 billion and prohibits the establishment of additional programs under TARP. Under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, or CPP, the U.S. Treasury committed to purchase up to $250 billion of preferred stock and warrants in eligible institutions. The EESA also temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance coverage to $250,000, and the Dodd-Frank Act made the increase permanent. On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan which, among other things, provides a forward-looking supervisory capital assessment program that is mandatory for banking institutions with over $100 billion of assets and makes capital available to financial institutions qualifying under a process and criteria similar to the CPP. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, was signed into law on February 17, 2009, and includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation and governance arrangements of financial institutions. In addition, the Secretary of the Treasury proposed fundamental changes to the regulation of financial institutions, markets and products on June 17, 2009. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010, will result in significant regulatory initiatives that could have a significant and possibly adverse impact on the financial services industry, including us. We cannot predict the actual effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, EESA, the ARRA, future legislative and regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary, and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the economy, the financial markets, or us. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. 20 Table of Contents Our net interest income could be negatively affected by further interest rate adjustments by the Federal Reserve Board. As a financial institution, our earnings are dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of our assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand, business, and results of operations. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit, and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve Board has taken action on nine occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 450 basis points since September 2007, which contributed to a decline in our net interest income in 2010. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our securities. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and currently are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the NC Commissioner, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, locations of offices, and the ability to accept brokered deposits on which we currently rely heavily to fund our operations. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, deposit funding strategy, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain well capitalized and well managed for regulatory purposes could affect client confidence, our ability to execute our business strategies, our ability to grow assets or establish new branches, our ability to obtain or renew brokered deposits, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, and make loans. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our success depends significantly on economic conditions in our market areas. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our banking offices are currently concentrated in North Carolina. Even if our change in strategy is successful, we expect that our banking offices will remain primarily concentrated in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions, locally or nationally, deteriorate further, this may have a significant impact on the amount of loans that we originate, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Prolonged continuation of the current economic downturn caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, government action, or other factors beyond our control would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, some portions of our target market are in coastal areas which are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, decrease the value of real estate collateral for our loans, and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. 21 Table of Contents Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have in recent years been experiencing volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely heavily on the services of key executives and directors, a number of which are new additions to our management team. Following our Public Offering in August 2010, we changed our management team and reduced the size of and reconstituted our Board of Directors. Our growth strategy contemplates continued services and expertise of these persons in the different markets in which we seek to expand. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our growth strategy or on our business, operations and financial condition. To be profitable, we must compete successfully with other financial institutions which have greater resources and capabilities than we do. The banking business in our target markets is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do and have been in existence a longer period of time. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and originating loans. We may not be able to attract clients away from our competition. We compete for loans and deposits with the following types of institutions: ` • other commercial banks • savings banks • thrifts • trust companies • credit unions • securities brokerage firms • mortgage brokers • insurance companies • mutual funds • industrial loan companies Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not regulated as extensively as we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Other competitors are subject to similar regulation but have the advantages of larger established client bases, higher lending limits, extensive branch networks, greater advertising and marketing budgets, or other factors. Our legal lending limit is determined by law and is calculated as a percentage of our capital and unimpaired surplus. The size of the loans which we are able to offer to our clients is less than the size of the loans that larger competitors are able to offer. This limit may affect our success in establishing relationships with the larger businesses in our market. We may not be able to successfully compete with the larger banks in our target markets. 22 Table of Contents Liquidity needs of the Company could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The primary sources of funds for the Bank are deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters, and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments, and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as additional out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties, which, if incorrect or incomplete, could harm our earnings. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients, counterparties or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a client’s audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the client. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on information provided to us, such as financial statements that do not comply with GAAP and may be materially misleading. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our operations. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action and adversely impact our results of operations. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that, if not managed properly, could damage our reputation, business or operating results. To conduct our business, we rely heavily on technology-driven products and services and on communications and information systems. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address our clients’ needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Furthermore, any failure, interruption or breach of the security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our client relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure investors that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions or security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of client business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in our common stock We may issue additional shares of stock or equity derivative securities, including awards to current and future executive officers, directors and employees, that could result in dilution of your investment. Our authorized capital includes 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 31, 2011, we had 28,619,358 shares of common stock outstanding and had reserved or otherwise set aside for issuance 2,373,632 shares underlying outstanding options and 412,000 shares that are available for future grants of stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based awards pursuant to the Company’s equity incentive plans. Subject to NASDAQ rules, our Board of Directors generally has the authority to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock for any corporate purpose. We may seek additional equity capital in the future as we develop our business and expand our operations, or we may issue additional equity in connection with the acquisition of strategic partners. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of current shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common stock. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then current shareholders. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the issuance of shares under the equity compensation plans will result in dilution of our shareholder’s ownership of our common stock. The exercise price of stock options could also adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional capital. Option holders are most likely to exercise their options when the exercise price is less than the market price for our common stock. They may profit from any increase in the stock price without assuming the risks of ownership of the underlying shares of common stock by exercising their options and selling the stock immediately. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our stock price may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of fluctuation in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business, which could result in losses to our investors. Future sales of our common stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our common stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading in the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in our common stock may be lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the potential for lower relative trading volume in our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. State laws and provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws could make it more difficult for another company to purchase us, even though such a purchase may increase shareholder value. In many cases, shareholders may receive a premium for their shares if we were purchased by another company. State law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for anyone to purchase us without approval of our Board of Directors. For example, our articles of incorporation divide the Board of Directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms with approximately one-third of the Board of Directors elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. This classification of directors makes it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors. As a result, at least two annual meetings of shareholders would be required for the shareholders to change a majority of directors, whether or not a change in the Board of Directors would be beneficial and whether or not a majority of shareholders believe that such a change would be desirable. We do not currently intend to pay dividends and may be unable to pay dividends in the future. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. If we determine to pay dividends in the future, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Our ability to pay dividends also is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. If these regulatory requirements are not satisfied, we would be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, Park Sterling Corporation is a bank holding company that is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, on our common stock would depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions received from the Bank. Various federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of the Bank or any other subsidiary of the Company from time to time upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability of our shareholders to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent any of our claims as a creditor of the subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, our common stock effectively will be subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of the Bank and any other subsidiaries we may have. Your right to receive liquidation and dividend payments on the common stock is junior to our existing and future indebtedness and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future. Shares our common stock are equity interests in us and do not constitute indebtedness. This means that shares of our common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in our liquidation. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $6.9 million of subordinated debt, in addition to our other liabilities, which would have been senior in right of payment to our common stock and we may incur additional indebtedness from time to time without the approval of the holders of our common stock. Additionally, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes or series of preferred stock in the future without any action on the part of our common shareholders. Our common shareholders would be subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of any preferred stock outstanding. Our common stock is not insured by the FDIC. Our common stock is not a savings or deposit account, and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to risk, including the possible loss of all or some principal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 