Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our capitalization. The risks described below are considered to be the most material. However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Our historical financial information may not necessarily reflect our results had we existed as a separate, independent company prior to the Split-Off. Prior to our Split-Off from Liberty Interactive in the third quarter of 2011, the assets, liabilities and businesses of our company were part of the larger Liberty Interactive organization, and our historical financial information has been extracted from Liberty Interactive's consolidated financial statements for the relevant periods prior to the Split-Off. Accordingly, our historical financial information may not necessarily reflect what our company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we existed as a separate, stand-alone entity pursuing independent strategies during the periods presented. Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates depend on their relationships with third party distribution channels, suppliers and advertisers and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations . An important component of the success of our subsidiaries and business affiliates, including Starz, TruePosition and Sirius XM Radio, is their ability to maintain their existing, as well as build new, relationships with third party distribution channels, including local and national cable and satellite providers, suppliers and advertisers, among other parties. Adverse changes in existing relationships or the inability to enter into new arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, if at all, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of Starz's affiliation agreements, or renewals on less advantageous terms, could have an adverse impact on our revenue. One of the primary sources of revenue for Starz is its affiliation agreements. Under these agreements, Starz licenses its programming to distributors such as cable and satellite operators, which in turn distribute the programming to their subscribers. These affiliation agreements generally provide for the level of carriage Starz programming will receive, such as channel placement and programming package inclusion, for payment of a license fee to Starz. These payments represent a significant portion of our revenue. Affiliation agreements generally have a limited term which varies from distributor to distributor, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on terms that are as favorable to Starz as those in effect today.There has been significant consolidation among cable and satellite operators, giving the largest operators considerable leverage in their relationships with programmers, including Starz. Continued consolidation within the industry could further reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming and increase the negotiating leverage of Starz's distributors which could adversely affect our revenue. The affiliation agreements between Starz and its two largest distributors represented approximately 11% and 8% of Liberty's revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. One of these affiliation agreements has an early termination clause at the end of 2012 and 2015 with a contract expiration in 2018. A failure to secure a renewal of either of these agreements, or a renewal on less favorable terms, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.Rapid technological advances could render the products and services offered by our subsidiaries and business affiliates obsolete or non-competitive. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates, including, for example, Starz, TruePosition, Sirius XM Radio and Live Nation, must stay abreast of rapidly evolving technological developments and offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of their services. These subsidiaries and business affiliates must be able to incorporate new technologies into their products and services in order to address the needs of their customers. There can be no assurance that they will be able to compete with advancing technology, and any failure to do so could result in customers seeking alternative service providers thereby adversely impacting our revenue and operating income.Our subsidiaries and business affiliates are subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Programming services, cable television systems, the Internet, telephony services and satellite service providers are subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission and other entities and in foreign countries by similar regulators. Such regulation and legislation are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. Material I-12QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this documentchanges in the law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our businesses and assets won't become subject to increased expenses or more stringent restrictions as a result of any future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. The success of one of our subsidiaries, Starz, as well as two of our business affiliates, Sirius XM and Live Nation, depends on audience acceptance of its programs and services which is difficult to predict. Entertainment content production, premium subscription television program services, satellite radio services and live entertainment events are inherently risky businesses because the revenue derived from these businesses depends primarily upon the public's acceptance of these programs and services, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a cable program, premium subscription television service, satellite radio program or live entertainment production depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing programs and other entertainment content available in the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. Audience sizes for cable programming and premium subscription television programs are important factors when cable television and direct-to-home (DTH) satellite providers negotiate affiliation agreements and, in the case of ad-supported programming and satellite radio service, when advertising rates are negotiated. Audience size is also an important factor when determining ticket pricing for live entertainment productions. Consequently, low public acceptance of the programs and services offered by Starz, Live Nation and Sirius XM Radio will have an adverse effect on our results of operations and could hurt the ability of these subsidiaries and business affiliates to maintain rates charged to affiliates, subscribers and advertisers.Increased programming and content costs may adversely affect profits. Starz, and one of our business affiliates, Sirius XM Radio, produce programming and other content and incur costs for all types of creative talent including writers, producers, actors and other on-air talent. Starz also acquires programming, such as movies and television series, from television production companies and movie studios. An increase in the costs of programming and other content may lead to decreased profitability. Continuingly weak economic conditions may reduce consumer demand for our products and services. The current economic malaise in the United States could adversely affect demand for our products and services. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically falls during times of economic instability. A reduction in discretionary spending could adversely affect revenue through potential downgrades by satellite and cable television subscribers and satellite radio subscribers, affecting Starz and Sirius XM Radio, reduced live-entertainment expenditures, affecting Live Nation and Atlanta National League Baseball Club, and a drastic slowdown in auto sales (which is an important source of satellite radio subscribers), affecting Sirius XM Radio. Accordingly, our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings could be adversely affected to the extent that relevant economic environments remain weak or decline further. We currently are unable to predict the extent of any of these potential adverse effects.The success of two of our subsidiaries, Starz and Atlanta National League Baseball Club, depends in large part on their ability to recruit and retain key persons. As Starz's original programming continues to gain greater market share, the key talent associated with this original programming will become difficult to replace. We cannot assure you that if Starz experiences turnover of these key persons, they will be able to recruit and retain acceptable replacements, in part, because the market for such employees is very competitive and limited. Similarly the success of the Atlanta National League Baseball Club depends on the record of the Atlanta Braves Major League baseball team during each season, which is directly impacted by their ability to employ and retain top performing players, coaches and managers.We do not have the right to manage our business affiliates, which means we are not able to cause those affiliates to operate in a manner that is favorable to us. We do not have the right to manage the businesses or affairs of any of our business affiliates (generally those companies in which we have less than a majority voting stake), including Sirius XM Radio, Barnes & Noble and Live Nation. Rather, our rights may take the form of representation on the board of directors or a partners' or similar committee that supervises management or possession of veto rights over significant or extraordinary actions. The scope of our veto rights vary from agreement to agreement. Although our board representation and veto rights may enable us to exercise influence over the management or policies of a business affiliate, enable us to prevent the sale of material assets by a business affiliate in which we own less than a majority voting interest or prevent us from paying dividends or making distributions to our stockholders or partners, they will not enable us to cause these actions to be taken. The liquidity and value of our public investments may be affected by market conditions beyond our control that could cause us to record losses for declines in their market value. Included among our assets are equity interests in one or more publicly-I-13QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this documenttraded companies that are not consolidated subsidiaries, such as Sirius XM Radio, Barnes & Noble and Live Nation. The value of these interests may be affected by economic and market conditions that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to liquidate these interests without adversely affecting their value may be limited. Transactions in our common stock by our insiders could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of or hedging transactions, such as collars, in our shares by our Chairman of the Board or any of our other directors or executive officers could cause a perception in the marketplace that our stock price has peaked or that adverse events or trends have occurred or may be occurring at our company. This perception can result notwithstanding any personal financial motivation for these insider transactions. As a result, insider transactions could depress the market price for shares of one or more series of our common stock. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in integrating any acquired businesses. Our businesses and those of our subsidiaries may grow through acquisitions in selected markets. Integration of new businesses may present significant challenges, including: realizing economies of scale in programming and network operations; eliminating duplicative overheads; and integrating networks, financial systems and operational systems. No assurance can be made that, with respect to any acquisition, Liberty will realize anticipated benefits or successfully integrate any acquired business with its existing operations. In addition, while Liberty intends to implement appropriate controls and procedures as it integrates acquired companies, Liberty may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies' disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting (as required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations) until Liberty has fully integrated them.The Company has overlapping directors and management with Liberty Interactive , which may lead to conflicting interests. As a result of the Split-Off, most of the executive officers of Liberty also serve as executive officers of Liberty Interactive, and there is significant board overlap between Liberty and Liberty Interactive. John C. Malone is the Chairman of the Board of Liberty and Liberty Interactive and Liberty Interactive does not have any ownership interest in Liberty, and Liberty does not have any ownership interest in Liberty Interactive. The executive officers and the members of Liberty's board of directors have fiduciary duties to its stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at Liberty Interactive have fiduciary duties to that company's stockholders. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting their respective companies. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when Liberty or Liberty Interactive looks at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for each of them. Moreover, most of Liberty's directors and officers continue to own Liberty Interactive stock and options to purchase Liberty Interactive stock. These ownership interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Liberty and/or Liberty Interactive. Any potential conflict that qualifies as a "related party transaction" (as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K) is subject to review by an independent committee of the applicable issuer's board of directors in accordance with its corporate governance guidelines. Any other potential conflicts that arise will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each issuer. From time to time, Liberty Interactive or its respective affiliates may enter into transactions with Liberty and/or its subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions or agreements will be established based upon arms'-length negotiations between employees of the companies involved, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to Liberty or its subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officers or directors.We may compete with Liberty Interactive for business opportunities. Certain of Liberty Interactive's subsidiaries and business affiliates own or operate programming services that may compete with the programming services offered by our businesses. For example, Starz and Liberty Interactive's subsidiary QVC both produce programming that is distributed via cable and satellite networks. We have no rights in respect of programming or distribution opportunities developed by or presented to the subsidiaries or business affiliates of Liberty Interactive, and the pursuit of these opportunities by such subsidiaries or affiliates may adversely affect our interests or those of our stockholders. Because we and Liberty Interactive have overlapping directors and officers, a business opportunity that is presented to those individuals may result in a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. Each of our directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to offer to our company any business opportunity that he or she may be presented in which we have an interest or expectancy. The directors and officers of Liberty Interactive, including those who are also our directors and officers, owe the same fiduciary duty to Liberty Interactive and its stockholders. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. I-14QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this documentUnder Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders.It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our restated charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: •authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock, a Series B common stock that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A common stock that entitles the holder to one vote per share, and a Series C common stock that except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holder to no voting rights; •classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; •limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; •requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our aggregate voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our restated charter; and •the existence of authorized and unissued stock, including "blank check" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to persons friendly to our then current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of our company. Our chairman, John C. Malone, beneficially owns shares representing the power to direct approximately 40% of the aggregate voting power in our company, due to his beneficial ownership of approximately 82% of the outstanding shares of our Series B common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.