Item 1A. Risk Factors Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in JetPay’s earnings. From time to time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as JetPay. JetPay may attempt to pass these increases along to its merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to their competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent JetPay’s passing along such increased fees to its merchant customers in the future, JetPay may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing its operating costs and reducing its earnings. Loss of key Independent Sales Organizations could reduce JetPay’s revenue growth. JetPay’s ISO sales channel, which purchases and resells its end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong contributor to its revenue growth. If an ISO switches to another transaction processor, shuts down, becomes insolvent, or enters the processing business themselves, JetPay may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and they risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO, all of which could negatively affect its revenues and earnings. 19 The payment processing industry is highly competitive and JetPay competes with certain firms that are larger and that have greater financial resources. Such competition could increase, which would adversely influence its prices to merchants, and as a result, its operating margins. The market for payment processing services is highly competitive. Other providers of payment processing services have established a sizable market share in the small and mid-sized merchant processing sector. Maintaining historic growth will depend on a combination of the continued growth in electronic payment transactions and JetPay’s ability to increase its market share. The weakness of the current economic recovery could cause future growth in electronic payment transactions to slow compared to historical rates of growth. This competition may influence the prices JetPay is able to charge. If the competition causes them to reduce the prices it charges, JetPay will have to aggressively control costs in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. In addition, some of its competitors are financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions or well-established payment processing companies. The competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with the card networks and can settle transactions more quickly for their merchants than they can for theirs. These competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, management and marketing resources than JetPay has. This may allow its competitors to offer more attractive fees to its current and prospective merchants, or other products or services that it does not offer. This could result in a loss of customers, greater difficulty attracting new customers, and a reduction in the price it can charge for its services. There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use payment cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to JetPay, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations. JetPay believes future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain its profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for their customers to do business, JetPay’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. JetPay incurs liability when its merchants refuse or cannot reimburse it for chargebacks resolved in favor of its customers, fees, fines or other assessments it incurs from the payment networks. JetPay cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. Furthermore, such disputes are more likely to arise during economic downturns, such as the one currently taking place. If JetPay is unable to collect such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse JetPay for a chargeback, JetPay may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. JetPay may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by merchants could have a materially adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on JetPay’s operating results and financial condition. JetPay has potential liability for fraudulent bankcard transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While JetPay has systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, JetPay cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase chargeback liability or cause them to incur other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have an adverse effect on their operating results and financial condition. Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect JetPay’s growth. The recent economic downturn has resulted in multiple bank failures and government-encouraged consolidation. Consolidation among financial institutions, particularly in the area of credit card operations, continues to be a major risk. Specifically, JetPay faces the risk that its clients may merge with entities that are not its clients, its clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not its clients and, based on current economic conditions, its clients may be seized by banking regulators or nationalized, thereby impacting their existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. In addition, consolidation among financial institutions has led to an increasingly concentrated client base which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. Continued consolidations among financial institutions could increase the bargaining power of their current and future clients. Larger banks and larger merchants with greater transaction volumes may demand lower fees which could result in lower revenues and earnings for JetPay. Consolidation among financial institutions, the nationalization of financial institutions or the seizure by banking regulators of financial institutions and the resulting loss of any significant client by JetPay could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations. Changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting JetPay’s business may impose costly compliance burdens and negatively impact its businesses. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards that affect JetPay’s operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways in the U.S. as well as internationally. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations or standards to which JetPay is subject in the U.S. as well as internationally, including the card network rules and rules with respect to privacy and information security, may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations, as well as damage its reputation. JetPay and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including the enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”). This legislation provides for significant financial regulatory reform. Dodd-Frank, among other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. Dodd-Frank also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services, including consumer credit. In addition, Dodd-Frank created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial companies should be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on their business. The overall impact of Dodd-Frank on its business is difficult to estimate. Current and future regulations as a result of Dodd-Frank may adversely affect its business or operations, directly or indirectly (if, for example, its clients’ businesses and operations are adversely affected). Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on JetPay’s business. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage JetPay’s business or its reputation. 21 Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer and business spending could adversely affect JetPay’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer and business spending. Significant portions of JetPay’s revenue and earnings are derived from fees from processing consumer credit card and debit card transactions. JetPay is exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates may adversely affect their financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in their revenue and profits. If cardholders of their financial institution clients make fewer transactions with their cards, JetPay’s merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments or people spend less money per transaction, JetPay will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A further weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on JetPay’s clients, as well as its customers who purchase products and services using its payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact its business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the discretionary market segments that represent a larger portion of its payment processing volume. In addition, a further weakening in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers have been reducing credit limits, closing accounts, and more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. JetPay also has a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service, processing contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit their ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in their businesses and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely impact their future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on their businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect JetPay’s ability to effectively provide its services to merchants. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and requiring safeguarding of, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. While their operations are subject to certain provisions of these privacy laws, JetPay has limited its use of consumer information solely to providing services to other businesses and financial institutions. In connection with providing services to its clients, JetPay is required by regulations and contracts with their merchants and financial institution clients to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts require periodic audits by independent companies regarding its compliance with industry standards and also allow for similar audits regarding best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to their infrastructure, components and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information shared by its clients with JetPay. Its ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect its ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If JetPay fails to comply with these regulations, it could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. In addition, its client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and JetPay could be inhibited in their ability to obtain new clients. If more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, their compliance costs may increase, their opportunities for growth may be curtailed by their compliance capabilities or reputational harm and their potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on their businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. 22 Recent Visa and MasterCard settlement may result in a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism. In July 2012, Visa and MasterCard agreed to settle litigation in a class action suit by almost 7 million merchants. If approved by the court, the settlement will, among other things, allow all merchants to pass on the cost of using credit cards to consumers, something that merchants were not previously permitted to do. The result will be that consumers using credit cards in approximately 40 states which do not prohibit credit card surcharges may pay a higher price for goods and services than consumers using other payment mechanisms. As a result, consumers will have an incentive to use cash or other payment mechanisms instead of credit cards. If consumers do not continue to use payment cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to JetPay, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations JetPay may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, JetPay relies on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, communications providers, electric utilities, payment networks like Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover, and banks used to electronically transfer funds to merchants. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to its operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to JetPay.. JetPay may face losses as a result of chargebacks with respect to Direct Air. Direct Air, a customer of JetPay, abruptly ceased operations on or about March 13, 2012. As a result, Merrick Bank, JetPay’s sponsor bank with respect to this particular merchant, has incurred chargeback losses in excess of $25 million. It is also possible that other chargebacks will be forthcoming as a result of the cessation of business by Direct Air. Under an agreement between Merrick Bank and JetPay, JetPay is obligated to indemnify Merrick for all such chargebacks. JetPay has not completed defending all the chargebacks that it believes to be invalid, so the actual indemnification obligation to Merrick Bank is unknown at this time. The loss is insured through a Chartis Insurance Policy for chargeback losses that names Merrick Bank as the primary insured. The policy has a limit of $25 million and a deductible of $250,000. To the extent JetPay is unsuccessful in defending the chargebacks or the chargebacks are not covered by the insurance policy, JetPay will incur losses to the extent of such incurred chargebacks. JetPay may be forced to transfer certain merchants from Merrick Bank to a different sponsor bank . If JetPay is unable to find a different sponsor bank to process transactions with respect to such merchants, JetPay’s business and financial results could adversely be affected. As a result of the chargebacks Merrick Bank has sustained with respect to Direct Air, JetPay may need transfer the processing activities of certain merchants deemed to be “high risk” to other sponsor banks. Accordingly, JetPay may need to locate and contract with different sponsor bank to process the transactions of such merchants. If JetPay is unable to locate a sponsor bank to process transactions for such merchants, JetPay would be unable to process transactions for such merchant and such merchants may elect to move to a different processor instead of staying with JetPay. JetPay’s business and financial results could adversely be affected as a result. JetPay may become the target for criminal activity designed to obtain cardholder information. JetPay is required to retain cardholder information for facilitating transactions or performing servicing for consumers. While JetPay has been certified as compliant with all Payment Card Industry security requirements and have advanced systems for protecting such data including encryption and tokenization, there is no guarantee that these systems will be effective in the future. A breach of these systems could lead to significant liability, fines, and additional costs to JetPay. ADC’s systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect its business and reputation. Many of ADC’s businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. ADC relies heavily on its payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, ADC could suffer financial loss, a disruption of their businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation. ADC has disaster recovery plans in place to protect its business against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite preparations, ADC’s disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to its operations, or damage to its important facilities. 23 Political and economic factors may adversely affect ADC’s business and financial results. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on ADC’s businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with ADC. ADC invests client funds in liquid, government-backed securities. Nevertheless, its client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. ADC is dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of its client payroll and tax services. While ADC has contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede their ability to process funds on behalf of their payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on its financial results and liquidity. ADC’s services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies. Many of ADC’s services, particularly payroll tax administration services are designed according to government regulations that continually change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of ADC’s services and substantially decrease its revenue. Added requirements could also increase ADC’s cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist ADC’s clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on its reputation. Failure by ADC to modify their services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. ADC receives interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. ADC may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, ADC relies on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to ADC’s operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to ADC. We have been a development stage company with no operating history. Accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We have been a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives, or ability to integrate or manage the companies acquired in the Completed Transactions, or implement the other elements of our strategy. 24 Due to their simultaneous acquisition we may not be successful in the integration of the acquired entities. We acquired two formerly privately-held companies simultaneously each of which has different financial systems, operating procedures and personnel policies, among other differences. Since part of our strategy relies on the cross-selling of each company’s products and services to the other, a seamless integration of the two entities is critical to our success. Due to the differences between the two entities, we may be unable to execute these integrations in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our business and financial results could adversely be affected as a result. The exercise of our outstanding option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. The sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent this option is exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to our securities, this is likely to adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. The sellers in the Completed Transactions, as well as certain other investors holding unregistered shares of common stock, are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional [10,194,026] shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market will have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our shares of common stock. We may discover or otherwise become aware of adverse information regarding our acquired business, and we may be required subsequently to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our share price. Any such development could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We conducted a due diligence investigation of the businesses we acquired, and intend to do the same with any business we consider in the future. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, and despite the due diligence performed on the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that this process has identified or will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target’s business and our control will not later arise. If our due diligence investigation fails to identify material issues relating to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if these charges may be non-cash items and may not adversely affect our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming debt held by a target business or by virtue of our otherwise obtaining debt financing. We received notice that we may be delisted from Nasdaq if we fail to regain compliance with the requirement that listed companies maintain a minimum of 300 shareholders or lose our appeal with respect to our failure to comply with Rule IM-5101-2. The Nasdaq quantitative listing standards, require, among other things, that listed companies maintain a minimum of 300 shareholders. On September 11, 2012, we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that we were not in compliance with this requirement and that we had 45 calendar days in which to submit a plan of compliance. Nasdaq has accepted our plan to regain compliance. We now have until February 9, 2013 to regain compliance or will be subject to delisting. Given the limited public awareness of our company, we may be unable to regain compliance with the minimum holders requirement within the required time frame. A delisting of the public shares, our public warrants and our units is likely to reduce the liquidity of such equity and may inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing. On December 28, 2012, we also received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that Nasdaq believes that we did not comply with IM-5101-2. Nasdaq advised that such failure serves as a basis for delisting. We had until January 4, 2013 to appeal the delisting decision in front of a Nasdaq Hearings Panel. We appealed such decision prior to such date and a hearing is scheduled for March 7, 2013. If we are not successful, Nasdaq will suspend trading of our common stock. 25 Changes in laws or regulations, or failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon Mr. Shah, and his loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon our Chief Executive Officer and chairman of the board, Mr. Shah. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Shah. In addition, Mr. Shah is not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, Mr. Shah. The unexpected loss of the services of Mr. Shah could have a detrimental effect on our company. Certain members of our management team and board are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us and may consider transactions with entities reviewed by us as possible targets. Certain members of our management team and board are, and may in the future, become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us and may consider transactions with entities reviewed by us as possible targets. As a result, our officers or directors or their affiliates might pursue acquisitions with businesses that were considered by us as possible targets. Our officers, directors and their affiliates may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our directors, officers or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us, and we may not be afforded an opportunity to engage in a transaction with such target business. Our management may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business transaction. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business transaction and, as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business transaction is in the best interest of our public stockholders. 26 Our management may not be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business transaction unless they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with a business transaction. If, as a condition to a potential initial business transaction, our existing officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business transaction, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business transaction and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business transaction. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business transaction will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business transaction. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business transaction, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business transaction that our existing officers and directors remain if it is believed to be in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business transaction. If our shares of common stock become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less, and our shares of common stock have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our shares of common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under The NASDAQ Stock Market. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: •make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; •receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; •provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and •obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our shares of common stock become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. The staggered terms of directors on our board of directors lessens the control over us exercised by our public stockholders. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. Accordingly, you may not be able to exercise your voting rights under Delaware corporate law for up to 17 months. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. At any such meeting our initial stockholders, because of their significant ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert significant control over us at least until the consummation of a business combination. 27 We may be subject to an increased rate of tax on our income if we are treated as a personal holding company. It is possible that we could be treated as a “personal holding company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes in a given taxable year if more than 50% of its ownership (by value) is concentrated, within a certain period of time, in five or fewer individuals (without regard to their citizenship or residency and including as individuals for this purpose certain entities such as certain tax-exempt organizations, pension funds, and charitable trusts), and at least 60% of its income is comprised of certain passive items. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 