ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We lack an established operating history on which to evaluate our business and determine if we will be able to execute our business plan, and we can give no assurance that our operations will result in profits. We were formed in Texas on May 17, 2007 and converted to a Delaware corporation on July 15, 2013; therefore, we have a limited operating history that makes it difficult to evaluate our business. We have been granted patents by the United States of America and China and we have currently pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and equivalent offices in the European Union, India, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, South Korea, China, Brazil and Canada for our power converter technology and our methods of operation, as well as various improvements on and applications of our basic power converter design. We have also had our designs validated by UL certifications from Intertek, the California Energy Commission, and several photovoltaic (“PV”) inverter installations. However, we have only recently begun sales of our products, and we cannot say with certainty when we will begin to achieve profitability. No assurance can be made that we will ever become profitable. We have incurred losses in prior periods and expect to incur losses in the future. We may never be profitable. Since our inception on May 17, 2007 through December 31, 2013, we sustained $16,752,212 in net losses and we had net losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 of $9,551,698 and $4,647,219, respectively. We expect to continue to sustain losses for the foreseeable future. As sales of our products have generated minimal operating revenues, we have relied on borrowings under convertible promissory notes, governmental grants and, recently, proceeds from our initial public offering to continue our operations. If we are unable to raise funds through equity or debt offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our business plan, generate sustainable revenue or ever achieve profitable operations. We expect to have operating losses until such time as we develop a substantial and stable revenue base. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. To date we have had a limited number of customers. We cannot assure you that our customer base will increase. One customer, the Department of Energy, from which we received $1,229,000 in net revenues in 2013, accounted for 65% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Two customers, the Department of Energy and Lockheed Martin Corporation (“LMC”), from which we received $694,000 and $153,900, respectively, in net revenues in 2012, accounted for 75% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company sold its products to a limited number of customers in 2013. We may not be able to meet our product development and commercialization milestones. Product development and testing are subject to unanticipated and significant delays, expenses and technical or other problems. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve our milestones within our planned timeframe or ever. Our plans and ability to achieve profitability depend on acceptance of our 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS technology and our products by key market participants, such as vendors and marketing partners, and potential end-users of our products. We continue to educate designers and manufacturers about our solar PV inverters, grid-battery converters, and electrified vehicle (“EV”) charging infrastructure. More generally, the commercialization of our products may also be adversely affected by many factors not within our control, including: • the willingness of market participants to try a new product and the perceptions of these market participants of the safety, reliability, functionality and cost effectiveness of our products; • the emergence of newer, possibly more effective technologies; • the future cost and availability of the raw materials and components needed to manufacture and use our products; and • the adoption of new regulatory or industry standards that may adversely affect the use or cost of our products. Accordingly, we cannot predict that our products will be accepted on a scale sufficient to support development of mass markets for them. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers, although design wins achieved do not necessarily result in substantial sales. The constantly changing nature of technology in the markets we serve causes equipment manufacturers to continually design new systems. We must work with these manufacturers early in their design cycles to modify our equipment or design new equipment to meet the requirements of their new systems. Manufacturers typically choose one or two vendors to provide the components for use with the early system shipments. Selection as one of these vendors is called a design win. It is critical that we achieve these design wins in order to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers. We believe that equipment manufacturers often select their suppliers based on factors including long-term relationships and end user demand. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from equipment manufacturers who are not currently our customers. In addition, we must compete for design wins for new systems and products of our existing customers, including those with whom we have had long-term relationships. Our efforts to achieve design wins are time consuming, expensive, and may not be successful. If we are not successful in achieving design wins, or if we do achieve design wins but our customers’ systems that utilize our products are not successful, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Once a manufacturer chooses a component for use in a particular product, it is likely to retain that component for the life of that product. Our sales and growth could experience material and prolonged adverse effects if we fail to achieve design wins. However, design wins do not always result in substantial sales, as sales of our products are dependent upon our customers’ sales of their products. The prototype of our new 3-port hybrid converter may not provide the results we expect, may prove to be too expensive to produce and market, or may uncover problems of which we are currently not aware, any of which could harm our business and prospects. We are currently developing our prototype of a 3-port hybrid converter, which is an integrated solar PV inverter and battery charger/inverter, based on improvements to our current PV inverter products. We do not yet know if the prototype will produce positive results consistent with our expectations. The prototype may also cost significantly more than expected, and the prototype design and construction process may uncover problems of which we are currently not aware. These and other prototypes of emerging products are a material part of our business plan, and if they are not proven to be successful, our business and prospects could be harmed. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have received grant funds from the United States for the development of a bidirectional insulated gate bipolar transistor (“BD-IGBT”). In certain instances, the United States may obtain title to inventions related to this effort. If we were to lose title to those inventions, we may have to pay to license them from the United States in order to manufacture the BD-IGBT. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development. In conjunction with the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (“ARPA-E”) grant we received from the Department of Energy, we granted to the United States a non-exclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States inventions related to the BD-IGBT and made within the scope of the grant. If we fail to disclose to the Department of Energy an invention made with grant funds that we disclose to patent counsel or for publication, or if we elect not to retain title to the invention, the United States may request that title to the subject invention be transferred to it. We also granted “march-in-rights” to the United States in connection with any BD-IGBT inventions in which we choose not to retain title, if those inventions are made under the ARPA-E grant. Pursuant to the march-in-rights, the United States has the right to require us, any person to whom we have assigned our rights, or any exclusive licensee to grant a non-exclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant upon terms that are reasonable. If the license is not granted as requested, the United States has the right to grant the license if it determines that we have not achieved practical application of the invention in the field of use, the action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, the action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by Federal regulations and such requirements have not been satisfied, or the action is necessary because an agreement to manufacture the invention in the United States has not been obtained or waived or because any such agreement has been breached. If we lost title to the United States as a result of any of these events, we would have to pay to license the inventions to manufacture the BD-IGBT from the United States. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development. We have entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement with the National Renewable Energy Lab (“NREL”). Under that agreement, the United States Government and NREL will have licenses to inventions made under that contract. As we announced in May 2013, we have entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (“CRADA”) with NREL. The CRADA provides that NREL and the Company will jointly develop and demonstrate a hybrid power converter system which includes bi-directional electric vehicle charging, photovoltaic generation, and stationary battery storage using our 3-port hybrid converter. Together with NREL, we will also jointly investigate synergies in tightly integrating these separate power conversion systems. The United States retains a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or to have practiced for or on behalf of the United States every invention made under this CRADA. The same licensing terms may apply to NREL’s operator, the Alliance for Sustainable Energy LLC. This agreement also grants “march-in-rights” to the United States in connection with any inventions made under this contract in which we choose not to retain title, if those inventions are made under the CRADA contract. Pursuant to the march-in-rights, the United States has the right to require us, any person to whom we have assigned our rights, or any exclusive licensee to grant a non-exclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant upon terms that are reasonable. If the license is not granted as requested, the United States has the right to grant the license if it determines that we have not achieved practical application of the invention in the field of use, the action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, the action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by Federal regulations and such requirements have not been satisfied, or the action is necessary because an agreement to manufacture the invention in the United States has not been obtained or waived or because any such agreement has been breached. We do not expect to make any inventions under the CRADA. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we expect to attract threats from patent monetization firms or competitors alleging infringement. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we expect to attract threats from patent monetization firms or competitors alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. For example, on October 4, 2013 we received a letter from a competitor alleging that the system architecture that appears on our website “appears” to infringe on patents licensed to or held by the competitor. We have investigated this claim and we have determined that the allegation is without merit. No resolution regarding this assertion has been reached. If we cannot resolve this matter, the cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; stop commercial activities relating to our product; obtain one or more licenses in order to secure the rights to continue manufacturing or marketing certain products; or attempt to compete in the market with substantially similar products. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some of our operations. In addition, a court may require that we pay expenses or damages, and litigation could disrupt our commercial activities. We expect to license our technology in the future; however the terms of these agreements may not prove to be advantageous to us. If the license agreements we enter into do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our goal is to license our technology to our customers. However, we may not be able to secure license agreements with customers on terms that are advantageous to us. Furthermore, the timing and volume of revenue earned from license agreements will be outside of our control. If the license agreements we enter into do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have not devoted significant resources towards the marketing and sale of our products and we continue to rely on the marketing and sales efforts of third parties whom we do not control. To date, we have sold low volumes of our solar PV inverter and battery converter products and, even after adding industry veterans to our staff, we continue to experience a learning curve in the marketing and sale of products on a commercial basis. We expect that the marketing and sale of these products will continue to be conducted by a combination of independent manufacturers’ representatives, third-party strategic partners, distributors, or original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). Consequently, commercial success of our products will depend to a great extent on the efforts of others. We intend to enter into strategic marketing and distribution agreements or other collaborative relationships to market and sell our solar PV inverter, battery converter and other value added products. However, we have not entered into any strategic marketing or material distribution agreements at this time. We have entered into one distribution agreement with a large electrical equipment distributor, but have not sold any products through that distributor thus far. We may not be able to identify or establish appropriate relationships in the near term or in the future. We can give no assurance that these distributors or OEMs will focus adequate resources on selling our products or will be successful in selling them. In addition, third-party distributors or OEMs have or may require us to provide volume price discounts and other allowances, customize our products or provide other concessions that could reduce the potential profitability of these relationships. Failure to develop sufficient distribution and marketing relationships in our target markets will adversely affect our commercialization schedule and to the extent we have entered or enter into such relationships, the failure of our distributors and other third parties to assist us with the marketing and distribution of our products, or to meet their monetary obligations to us, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS A material part of our success depends on our ability to manage our suppliers and manufacturers. Our failure to manage our suppliers and manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. We rely upon suppliers to provide the components necessary to build our products and on contract manufacturers to produce our products. There can be no assurance that key suppliers and manufacturers will provide components or products in a timely and cost efficient manner or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace suppliers and manufacturers, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace our contract manufacturers and suppliers, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. Our business is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing. If we do not obtain such financing, we may have to cease our activities. There is no assurance that we will operate profitably or generate positive cash flows in the future. In the future, we may require additional financing in order to sell our then current products and to continue the research and development required to produce our next generation of products. At that time, we may not be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we do not obtain such financing when needed, our business could fail. The economic downturn in the United States has adversely affected, and is likely to continue affecting, our ability to raise capital, which may potentially impact our ability to continue our operations. As a company that is still in the process of developing its technology, we may need to rely on raising funds from investors to support our future research and development activities and our operations. The economic downturn in the United States has resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, which has made it more difficult to raise capital. If we are unable to raise funds as and when we need them, we may be forced to curtail our operations or even cease operating altogether. We are subject to credit risks. Some of our customers may experience financial difficulties and/or may fail to meet their financial obligations to us. As a result, we may incur charges for bad debt provisions related to some trade receivables. In certain cases where our end customers utilize contract manufacturers or distributors, our accounts receivable risk may lie with the contract manufacturer or distributor and may not be guaranteed by the end customer. In addition, in connection with the growth of the renewable energy market, we are gaining a substantial number of new customers, some of which have relatively short histories of operations or are newly formed companies. As a result, it is difficult to ascertain financial information in order to appropriately extend credit to these customers. Further, the volatility in the renewable energy market may put additional pressure on our customers’ financial positions, as they may be required to respond to large swings in revenue. The renewable energy industry has also seen an increasing amount of bankruptcies and reorganizations as the availability of financing has diminished. If customers fail to meet their financial obligations to us, or if the assumptions underlying our recorded bad debt provisions with respect to receivables obligations do not accurately reflect our customers’ financial conditions and payment levels, we could incur write-offs of receivables in excess of our provisions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. We may not be able to control our warranty exposure, which could increase our expenses. We currently offer and expect to continue to offer a warranty with respect to our power converters and we expect to offer a warranty with each of our future product applications. If the cost of warranty claims exceeds any reserves we may establish for such claims, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be exposed to lawsuits and other claims if our products malfunction, which could increase our expenses, harm our reputation and prevent us from growing our business. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions of our products could be substantial, increase our expenses and prevent us from growing or continuing our business. Potential customers may rely on our products for critical needs, such as backup power. A malfunction of our products could result in warranty claims or other product liability. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would reduce revenue and harm our business. Further, since our products are used in devices that are made by other manufacturers, we may be subject to product liability claims even if our products do not malfunction. We are highly dependent on the services of William Alexander, as well as other key members of our executive management team. Our inability to retain these individuals could impede our business plan and growth strategies, which could have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment. Our ability to implement our business plan depends, to a critical extent, on the continued efforts and services of William Alexander, our founder and Chief Technology Officer, and other members of our executive management team. If we lose the services of any of these persons during this important time in our development, the loss may result in a delay in the implementation of our business plan and plan of operations. We can give no assurance that we could find satisfactory replacements for these individuals on terms that would not be unduly expensive or burdensome to us. We do not currently carry a key-man life insurance policy that would assist us in recouping our costs in the event of the death or disability of any of these persons. Any failure by management to properly manage our expected rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our business develops as expected, we anticipate that we will grow rapidly in the near future. Our failure to properly manage our expected rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain key personnel. Our expansion could also place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we experience difficulties in any of these areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Industry Our industry is intensely competitive. We cannot guarantee you that we can compete successfully. We will be competing against providers of power converter systems that are highly established and have substantially greater manufacturing, marketing, management and financial resources including very substantial market position and name recognition. The competitors for our PV inverter products include ABB, Advanced Energy, SMA and Chint Solar. All aspects of our business, including pricing, financing and servicing, as well as the general quality, efficiency and reliability of our products, are significant competitive factors. Our ability to successfully compete with respect to each of these factors is material to the acceptance of our products and our future profitability. In addition, the solar power industry may tend to be resistant to change and to new products from suppliers that are not major names in the field. Our competitors will use their established position to their competitive advantage. If our innovations are successful, our competitors may seek to adopt and copy our ideas, designs and features. Our competitors may develop or offer technologies and products that may be more effective or popular than our products and they may be more successful in marketing their products than we are in marketing ours. Pricing competition could result in lower margins for our products. We expect to compete on the basis of our products’ significantly lower cost, smaller footprint, and higher efficiency. Technological advances in alternative energy products or other power converter technologies may negatively affect the development of our products or make our products non-competitive or obsolete prior to commercialization or afterwards. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in our markets, or compete effectively against current and new competitors as our industry continues to evolve. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for energy-related technologies could harm our business. We believe that near-term growth of energy-related technologies, including power converter technology, relies on the availability and size of government and economic incentives and grants (including, but not limited to, the U.S. Investment Tax Credit and various state and local incentive programs). These incentive programs could be challenged by utility companies, or for other reasons found to be unconstitutional, and/or could be reduced or discontinued for other reasons. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives could delay the development of our technology and harm our business. Changes to the National Electrical Codes (“NEC”) could adversely affect our technology and products. Our products are installed by system integrators that must meet the NEC standards, including using equipment that meets industry standards such as UL1741. The NEC standards address the safety of these systems. The NEC standards, along with the UL1741 and IEEE1547 requirements, continue to evolve and are subject to change. If we respond to these changing standards and requirements more slowly than our competitors, or if we are unable to meet new standards and requirements, our products will be less competitive. New technologies in the alternative energy industry may supplant solar PV inverter devices (including our current products for which we have patents and pending patent applications), which would harm our business and operations. The alternative energy industry is subject to rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on the cutting edge relevance of our technology, and thereafter on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If new technologies supplant our power converter technology, our business would be adversely affected and we will have to revise our plan of operation. Businesses, consumers, and utilities might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for providing or obtaining their electricity and power needs. On-site distributed power generation solutions that utilize our inverter products (such as PV systems) provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power. There is a risk that businesses, consumers, and utilities may not adopt these new methods at levels sufficient to grow our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses, consumers and utilities must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of providing and purchasing electricity. As larger solar projects come online, utilities are becoming increasingly concerned with grid stability, power management and the predictable loading of such power onto the grid. We cannot be certain that businesses, consumers, and utilities will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: • market acceptance of PV systems that incorporate our products; • the cost competitiveness of these systems; • regulatory requirements; and • the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the costs we will have incurred to develop these products. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS The industries in which we compete are subject to volatile and unpredictable cycles. As a supplier to the solar, grid energy storage, EV charging infrastructure, wind, electric motor and related industries, we are subject to business cycles. The timing, length, and volatility of these business cycles can be difficult to predict. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and affect our orders, net sales, operating expenses, and net income. In addition, we may not be able to respond adequately or quickly to the declines in demand by reducing our costs. We may be required to record significant reserves for excess and obsolete inventory as demand for our products changes. To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the industries we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain, and motivate and retain key employees. During periods of increasing demand, we must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to fulfill customer orders, effectively manage our supply chain, and attract, retain, and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment or to accurately assess where we are positioned within a business cycle, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We are an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”) and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. At present, we intend to take advantage of the exemption from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation but do not intend to take advantage of any of the other exemptions, other than as they apply to all other “smaller reporting companies,” though we may do so at some point in the future. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if our revenues exceed $1 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company,” we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our reporting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS If a public market for our common stock develops, it may be volatile. This may affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares as well as the price at which they sell their shares. If a market for our common stock develops, the market price for the shares may be significantly affected by factors such as variations in the volume of trading activity, quarterly and yearly operating results, general trends in the alternative energy industry, and changes in state or federal regulations affecting us and our industry. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, if a market for it develops. We have the right to issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. No shares of preferred stock are presently issued and outstanding and we have no immediate plans to issue shares of preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could adversely reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of the Company’s assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock we are offering. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure you that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and have no immediate plans to pay dividends. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to our securities in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, you should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. Management of our Company is within the control of the board of directors and the officers. You should not purchase our common stock unless you are willing to entrust management of our Company to these individuals. All decisions with respect to the management of the Company will be made by our board of directors and our officers, who beneficially own 12.2% of our common stock, as calculated in accordance with Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, management will retain significant influence in electing a majority of the board of directors who shall, in turn, have the power to appoint the officers of the Company and to determine, in accordance with their fiduciary duties and the business judgment rule, the direction, objectives and policies of the Company including, without limitation, the purchase of businesses or assets; the sale of all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company; the merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation; raising additional capital through financing and/or equity sources; the retention of cash reserves for future product development, expansion of our business and/or acquisitions; the filing of registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission for offerings of our capital stock; and transactions that may cause or prevent a change in control of the Company or its winding up and dissolution. Accordingly, no investor should purchase our common stock unless such investor is willing to entrust all aspects of the management of the Company to such individuals. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS We will incur significant increased costs as a result of becoming a public company that reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our management will be required to devote substantial time to meet compliance obligations. As a public company reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are subject to reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission that impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. In addition, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that are expected to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. In addition, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to build our finance infrastructure and improve our accounting systems and controls could impair our ability to comply with the financial reporting and internal controls requirements for publicly traded companies. As a public company, we operate in an increasingly demanding regulatory environment, which requires us to comply with applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, expanded disclosure requirements, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. We will need to hire or outsource additional finance personnel and build our financial infrastructure as a public company, including complying with the applicable requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may be unable to do so on a timely basis. Until we are able to expand our finance and administrative capabilities and establish necessary financial reporting infrastructure, we may not be able to prepare and disclose, in a timely manner, our financial statements and other required disclosures or comply with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or existing or new reporting requirements. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. From time to time, holders of our restricted common stock may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market, pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). In general, common stock held by affiliates may also be sold pursuant to Rule 144 after six months, subject to the current public information requirements, volume limitation requirement, broker’s sale requirement and Form 144 filing requirement. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 3,187,709 shares of our outstanding common stock were eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding options and warrants for the purchase of 485,573 shares and 1,659,922 shares, respectively, of our common stock and we may grant additional options and/or warrants in the future. If our stock price rises, the holders may exercise their options or warrants and sell a large number of shares. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable. Our Certificate of Incorporation (“Certificate”) and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. The provisions in our Certificate and bylaws: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; • do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; • do not provide for cumulative voting rights; and • provide that all vacancies may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit our ability to engage in any business combination with a person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock unless certain conditions are satisfied. This restriction lasts for a period of three years following the share acquisition. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. See “Anti-Takeover Effects of Certain Provisions of Delaware Law and Our Charter Documents” for additional information. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. Presently, analysts do not publish reports on us on a regular basis, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our stock price or trading volume. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 