ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objective. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. We may face other risks that we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the price of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We are a newly-formed company with little operating history. We commenced our investing activities beginning July 8, 2011. As a result, we have limited financial information on which you can evaluate an investment in our company or our prior performance. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially or your investment could become worthless. We anticipate that it may take multiple years to invest substantially all of the capital commitments we received from the Private Offerings and other sources due to market conditions generally and the time necessary to identify, evaluate, structure, negotiate and close suitable investments in private middle-market companies. To the extent required to comply with diversification requirements during the startup period, we will use funds to invest in temporary investments, such as cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less, which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest, dividend or other income that we anticipate receiving in respect of suitable portfolio investments. We may not be able to pay any significant dividends during this period, and any such dividends may be substantially lower than the dividends we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. 22 Table of Contents We will pay a Management Fee to the Adviser throughout this interim period. If the Management Fee and our other expenses exceed the return on the temporary investments, our equity capital will be eroded. We are dependent upon management personnel of the Adviser for our future success. We depend on the experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the Adviser’s senior investment professionals. The senior investment professionals, together with other investment professionals that the Adviser currently retains or may subsequently retain, identify, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and manage our investments. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the Adviser’s senior investment professionals. The departure of any of the Adviser’s key personnel, including members of the Adviser’s Investment Review Committee, or the investment professionals or partners of TPG, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Adviser will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to TPG or its investment professionals. The Adviser and its management have no prior experience managing a BDC. The senior investment professionals of the Adviser have no prior experience managing a business development company, and the investment philosophy and techniques used by the Adviser to manage a public company may differ from the investment philosophy and techniques previously employed by the Adviser’s senior investment professionals in identifying and managing past investments. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that we will replicate the historical performance of other businesses or companies with which the Adviser’s senior investment professionals have been affiliated, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by such other companies. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. See “ITEM 1. BUSINESS. —Regulation as a Business Development Company” for a discussion of business development company limitations. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in securities of nonpublic or thinly traded U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. These constraints may hinder the Adviser’s ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise additional capital, and the ways in which we can do so. Raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage, and may result in dilution to our current stockholders. The 1940 Act limits our ability to issue debt and preferred stock (“senior securities”) to amounts such that our asset coverage ratio is at least 200% of assets less liabilities and other indebtedness. Consequently, if the value of our assets declines, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when this may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our Common Stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our Common Stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our Common Stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our Common Stock if our Board determines that a sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders and our stockholders approve it. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss and increases the risk of investing in us. As part of our business strategy, we borrow from and may in the future issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies, and other lenders. Holders of these senior securities will have fixed-dollar claims on our assets, or undrawn capital available to us that are superior to the claims of our stockholders. If the value of our 23 Table of Contents assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common share dividend payments. Our ability to service our borrowings depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, the Management Fee will be payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage. Furthermore, our Revolving Credit Facility imposes financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, our ability to call capital, remedies on default and similar matters. As of the date of this Annual Report, we are in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, although we believe we will continue to be in compliance, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with the covenants in the Revolving Credit Facility. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Revolving Credit Facility that, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders or holders of such indebtedness, as applicable, such lenders or holders could accelerate repayment under such indebtedness and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, we may be unable to obtain additional leverage, which would, in turn, affect our return on capital. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Other entities, including commercial banks, commercial financing companies, other business development companies and insurance companies compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in middle-market companies. Certain of these competitors may be substantially larger, have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we will have and offer a wider array of financial services. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. Many competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act will impose on us as a business development company or the restrictions that the Code will impose on us as a RIC. If we are unable to source investments or manage future growth effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our investment team’s ability to identify, evaluate, finance and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our investment team may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. To grow, our Adviser needs to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. However, we cannot provide assurance that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the Management Fee and, in certain circumstances, the Incentive Fee will still be payable. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the Management Fee and, in certain circumstances, the Incentive Fee will still be payable. Following an IPO, the Management Fee will be calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets at a specific time. Accordingly, the Management Fee will be payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets and/or your investment have decreased. Moreover, one component of the Incentive Fee is calculated annually based upon our realized capital gains, computed net of realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis. As a result, we may owe the Adviser an Incentive Fee 24 Table of Contents during one year as a result of realized capital gains on certain investments, and then later incur significant realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on the remaining investments in our portfolio during subsequent years. See “ITEM 1. BUSINESS. —Advisory Agreement; Administration Agreement; License Agreement.” In addition, the Incentive Fee payable by us to the Adviser may create an incentive for the Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such a compensation arrangement. The Adviser receives the Incentive Fee based, in part, upon capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the Incentive Fee that is based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains. As a result, the Adviser may have an incentive to invest more in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. We will incur corporate-level income tax costs if we are unable to qualify as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes or if we are not able to distribute all of our income in a timely fashion. Although we intend to elect to be treated as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes, no assurance can be given that we will be able to qualify for and maintain RIC status. To obtain and maintain RIC status for U.S. tax purposes and claim a dividends paid deduction in computing taxable income, we must meet the following distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements: • We must distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of the sum of our net ordinary income and any realized net short-term capital gains in excess of the realized net long-term capital losses (i.e., “investment company taxable income”), if any, plus net tax exempt income of the Company. In the event we use debt financing, we will be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. In addition, as discussed in more detail below, our income for tax purposes may exceed our available cash flow. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to maintain our status as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • We must derive at least 90% of our gross income for each taxable year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of or other disposition of stock or securities or similar sources. • We must meet specified asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. The need to satisfy these requirements in order to prevent the loss of RIC status may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly on unfavorable terms. Because most of our investments will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason in any particular taxable year, the resulting federal income tax liability could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions. Our investment adviser and its affiliates, officers and employees have certain conflicts of interest. The Adviser, its officers and employees and members of its investment committee serve or may serve as investment advisers, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as us and/or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, we note that any affiliated investment 25 Table of Contents vehicle currently formed or formed in the future and managed by the Adviser or its affiliates may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. As a result, the Adviser and/or its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Although the Adviser and its affiliates will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and consistent with applicable allocation procedures, it is possible that, in the future, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by the Adviser or its affiliates. In any such case, if the Adviser forms other affiliates in the future, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, as well as applicable allocation procedures. In certain circumstances, negotiated co-investments may be made only if we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so. There can be no assurance when any such order would be obtained or that one will be obtained at all. Our Board may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our Board has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice (except as required by the 1940 Act) and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our Common Stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws and regulations at the local, state, federal and, in some cases, foreign levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, changes in their interpretation, or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain business practices of us or our portfolio companies, negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. These changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans described herein and may result in our investment focus shifting. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. While the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. Our investment adviser’s liability is limited under the Advisory Agreement, and we are required to indemnify our investment adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our investment adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the Advisory Agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board in declining to follow our investment adviser’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the Advisory Agreement, our investment adviser and its managers, officers, employees, agents, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with it 26 Table of Contents will not be liable to the Company for any action taken or omitted to be taken by the Adviser in connection with the performance of any of its duties or obligations under the Advisory Agreement or otherwise as an investment adviser of the Company (except to the extent specified in Section 36(b) of the Investment Company Act concerning loss resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty (as the same is finally determined by judicial proceedings) with respect to the receipt of compensation for services). We have agreed to the fullest extent permitted by law, to provide indemnification and the right to the advancement of expenses, to each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved (including, without limitation, as a witness) in any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he/she is or was a member, manager, officer, employee, agent, controlling person or any other person or entity affiliated with the Adviser with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of our investment adviser in the performance of their duties under the Advisory Agreement, other than acts not in good faith with the reasonable belief that the conduct was in, or not opposed to, the best interest of the Company, and conduct constituting gross negligence, bad faith, reckless disregard, or willful misconduct. These protections may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. The Adviser can resign on 60 days’ notice. We may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. The Adviser has the right, under the Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, regardless of whether we have found a replacement. If the Adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected, and the value of our Common Stock may decline. In addition, our Board has the authority to remove the Adviser or choose to not renew the Advisory Agreement. To the extent that we do not realize income or choose not to retain after-tax realized capital gains, we will have a greater need for additional capital to fund our investments and operating expenses. In order to maintain our status as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes, we must, in each taxable year, distribute (or be deemed to distribute) dividends equal to at least 90% of our investment company taxable income for such taxable year and may either distribute or retain our realized net capital gains from investments. Unless investors elect to reinvest dividends, earnings that we are required to distribute to stockholders will not be available to fund future investments. Accordingly, we may have insufficient funds to make new and follow-on investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the structure and objectives of our business, we may experience operating losses and expect to rely on proceeds from sales of investments, rather than on interest and dividend income, to pay our operating expenses. There is no assurance that we will be able to sell our investments and thereby fund our operating expenses. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, interest rates payable on the investments we make, changes in realized and unrealized gains and losses, the level of our expenses, and default rates on our investments. As a result of these and other possible factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Any failure to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Economic Conditions The current state of the economy and financial markets increases the likelihood of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past several years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. Disruptions in the capital markets increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. While recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the capital markets, we cannot provide any assurance that these conditions will not worsen. If these conditions continue or worsen, the prolonged period of market illiquidity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, to the extent that recessionary conditions return, the financial results of small to mid-sized companies, like those in which we invest, will likely experience deterioration, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting debt service requirements and an increase in defaults. Additionally, the end markets for certain of our portfolio companies’ products and services have experienced, and continue to experience, negative economic trends. The performances of certain of our portfolio companies have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by these economic or other conditions, which may ultimately result in our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies and/or losses or charge offs related to our investments, and, in turn, may adversely affect distributable income. Economic recessions or downturns could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loans, which, in turn, could increase our non-performing assets, decrease the value of our portfolio, reduce our volume of new loans and harm our operating results, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our portfolio companies are and may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during such periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the European Union (EU) could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government’s credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. This downgrade could lead to subsequent downgrades by S&P, as well as to downgrades by the other two major credit rating agencies, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings. These developments, and the government’s credit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our Common Stock. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, including our ability to launch or complete an IPO, and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock We are currently in a period of capital markets disruption and volatility and do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future; as a result, we may be unable to list our Common Stock. The U.S. capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than three years. Disruptions in the capital markets have increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. We believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our portfolio companies’ funding costs, limit their access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to them. These conditions could limit our investment originations, limit our portfolio companies’ ability to grow, have an adverse impact on our ability to exit investments when desirable, negatively impact our operating results, and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Although a portion of our expected earnings and dividend distributions will be attributable to net interest income, we do not expect to generate capital gains from the sale of our portfolio investments on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. This may result in substantial fluctuations in our quarterly dividend payments. In certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing the income. Depending on the amount of noncash income, this could result in difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may delay distributions during a year until we generate cash or we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. In addition, all or a portion of the dividends paid by the Company to non-U.S. shareholders will be exempt from U.S. nonresident withholding taxes to the extent such dividends are derived from the Company’s qualified interest income or qualified short-term capital gains, as defined in the Code. However, this exemption from U.S. nonresident withholding tax no longer applies in the case of dividends paid with respect to any taxable year of the Company beginning after December 31, 2011. Therefore, the withholding tax treatment of our distributions to certain of our non-U.S. stockholders will depend on whether and when Congress enacts legislation extending this U.S. nonresident withholding tax exemption and we may elect to defer the payment of dividends in any year pending the resolution of this issue. Since we expect to have an average holding period for our portfolio company investments of two to four years, it is unlikely we will generate any capital gains during our initial years of operation and thus we are likely to pay dividends in those years principally from interest we receive from our initial and follow-on investments prior to the sale or refinancing of loans we make. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends in our initial years of operation will be based on our ability to invest our capital in suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner. In addition, the middle-market companies in which we intend to invest are generally more susceptible to economic downturns than larger operating companies, and therefore may be more likely to default on their payment obligations to us during recessionary periods, including the current economic environment. Any such defaults could substantially reduce our net investment income available for distribution in the form of dividends to our stockholders. You may be subject to filing requirements under the 1934 Act as a result of your investment in the Company. Because our Common Stock are registered under the 1934 Act, ownership information for any person who beneficially owns 5% or more of our Common Stock will have to be disclosed in a Schedule 13G or other filings with the SEC. Beneficial ownership for these purposes is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC, 29 Table of Contents and includes having voting or investment power over the securities. In some circumstances, investors who choose to reinvest their dividends may see their percentage stake in the Company increased to more than 5%, thus triggering this filing requirement. Although we will provide in our quarterly statements the amount of outstanding shares and the amount of the investor’s shares, the responsibility for determining the filing obligation and preparing the filing remains with the investor. You may be subject to the short-swing profits rules under the 1934 Act as a result of your investment in the Company. Persons with the right to appoint a director or who hold more than 10% of a class of our shares may be subject to Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act, which recaptures for the benefit of the Company profits from the purchase and sale of registered shares within a six-month period. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan. We have adopted a dividend reinvestment plan, pursuant to which the Company will reinvest all cash dividends declared by the Board on behalf of investors who do not elect to receive their dividends in cash. As a result, if the Board authorizes, and we declare, a cash dividend or other distribution, then our stockholders who have not opted out of our dividend reinvestment plan will have their cash distributions automatically reinvested in additional Common Stock, rather than receiving the cash dividend or other distribution. See “ITEM 1. Our Business—Dividend Policy” and “ITEM 1. Our Business—Dividend Reinvestment Plan” for a description of our dividend policy and obligations. Stockholders that opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our Common Stock over time. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Company Investments Our investments are very risky and highly speculative. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans, and select mezzanine and/or equity investments issued by middle-market companies. Senior Secured Loans. When we make a senior secured loan, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise, and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien could be, or could become, subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine or Other Junior Debt. Our junior debt investments generally will be subordinated to senior loans and will either have junior security interests or be unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of insolvency. This may result in an above average amount of risk and loss of principal. Equity Investments. When we invest in senior secured loans or mezzanine loans, we may acquire equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 30 Table of Contents In addition, investing in middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • such companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • such companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • such companies generally have less predictable operating results, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • such companies may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. The value of our portfolio securities may not have a readily available market price and, in such a case, we will value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board, which valuation is inherently subjective and may not reflect what we may actually realize for the sale of the investment. Investments are valued at the end of each fiscal quarter. Substantially all of our investments are expected to be in loans that do not have readily ascertainable market prices. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded or whose market prices are not readily available will be determined in good faith by the Board, which is supported by the valuation committee of our Adviser and by the audit committee of our Board. Pursuant to a letter agreement, the Board has retained Duff & Phelps, a global independent provider of financial advisory and investment banking services, to assist the Board by performing certain limited third-party valuation services. In accordance with our valuation policy, investment professionals from the Adviser will prepare portfolio company valuations using sources and/or proprietary models depending on the availability of information on our investments and the type of asset being valued. The participation of the Adviser in our valuation process could result in a conflict of interest, since the Management Fee is based in part on our gross assets. Because fair valuations, and particularly fair valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are often based to a large extent on estimates, comparisons and qualitative evaluations of private information, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been determined if a ready market for these securities existed. This could make it more difficult for investors to value accurately our portfolio investments and could lead to undervaluation or overvaluation of our Common Stock. In addition, the valuation of these types of securities may result in substantial write-downs and earnings volatility. Our portfolio securities may be thinly traded and, as a result, the lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make loans to private companies. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell positions if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded such investments. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we hold a significant portion of a company’s equity or if we have material non-public information regarding that company. Our portfolio may be focused in a limited number of portfolio companies, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio is currently concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries and may continue to be in the near future. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly affect our aggregate returns. We may enter into collateralized loan obligations, which may subject us to certain structured financing risks. To finance investments, we may securitize certain of our investments, including through the formation of one or more collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), while retaining all or most of the exposure to the performance of these investments. This would involve contributing a pool of assets to a special purpose entity, and selling debt interests in such entity on a non-recourse or limited-recourse basis to purchasers. Any interest in any such CLO held by the Company may be considered a “non-qualifying asset” for purposes of Section 55 of the 1940 Act. If the Company creates a CLO, the Company depends on distributions from the CLO’s assets out of its earnings and cash flows to enable it to make distributions to its stockholders. The ability of a CLO to make distributions or pay dividends will be subject to various limitations, including the terms and covenants of the debt it issues. For example, tests (based on interest coverage or other financial ratios or other criteria) may restrict our ability, as holder of a CLO’s equity interests, to receive cash flow from these investments. There is no assurance any such performance tests will be satisfied. Also, a CLO may take actions that delay distributions in order to preserve ratings and to keep the cost of present and future financings lower or the CLO may be obligated to retain cash or other assets to satisfy over-collateralization requirements commonly provided for holders of the CLO’s debt. As a result, there may be a lag, which could be significant, between the repayment or other realization on a loan or other assets in, and the distribution of cash out of, a CLO, or cash flow may be completely restricted for the life of the CLO. In addition, a decline in the credit quality of loans in a CLO due to poor operating results of the relevant borrower, declines in the value of loan collateral or increases in defaults, among other things, may force a CLO to sell certain assets at a loss, reducing their earnings and, in turn, cash potentially available for distribution to us for distribution to our stockholders. To the extent that any losses are incurred by the CLO in respect of any collateral, such losses will be borne first by us as owners of the CLO equity interests. Finally, any equity interests that we retain in a CLO will not be secured by the assets of the CLO and we will rank behind all creditors of the CLO. Because we currently do not hold, and likely will not hold, controlling interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over such portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of such portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We are a lender, and loans (and any equity investments we make) will be non-controlling investments, meaning we will not be in a position to control the management, operation and strategic decision-making of the companies we invest in. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company we do not control, or in which we do not have a majority ownership position, may make business decisions with which we disagree, 32 Table of Contents and the equityholders and management of such a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we will typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event that we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. The majority of our debt investments are based on floating rates, such as LIBOR, EURIBOR, the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our Common Stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our Common Stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our Common Stock. A portion of our debt securities may be rated below investment grade, or of comparable quality, and may be considered speculative. Our investments are likely to be in lower grade obligations. The lower grade investments in which we invest may be rated below investment grade by one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agencies at the time of investment or may be unrated but determined by the Adviser to be of comparable quality. Loans or debt securities rated below investment grade are considered speculative with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. By originating loans to companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, we may be exposed to distressed lending risks. As part of our lending activities, we may originate loans to companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, including companies involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization and liquidation proceedings. Although the terms of such financing may result in significant financial returns to us, they involve a substantial degree of risk. The level of analytical sophistication, both financial and legal, necessary for successful financing to companies experiencing significant business and financial difficulties is unusually high. There is no assurance that we will correctly evaluate the value of the assets collateralizing our loans or the prospects for a successful reorganization or similar action. In any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relating to a company that we fund, we may lose all or part of the amounts advanced to the borrower or may be required to accept collateral with a value less than the amount of the loan advanced by us to the borrower. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investments. These debt instruments would usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company typically are entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for 33 Table of Contents repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing any junior priority loans we make to our portfolio companies may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that senior obligations are outstanding, we may forfeit certain rights with respect to the collateral to the holders of the senior obligations. These rights may include the right to commence enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the right to control the conduct of such enforcement proceedings, the right to approve amendments to collateral documents, the right to release liens on the collateral and the right to waive past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if as a result our rights as junior lenders are adversely affected. We may be exposed to special risks associated with bankruptcy cases. One or more of our portfolio companies may be involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization or liquidation proceedings. Many of the events within a bankruptcy case are adversarial and often beyond the control of the creditors. While creditors generally are afforded an opportunity to object to significant actions, there can be no assurance that a bankruptcy court would not approve actions that may be contrary to our interests. Furthermore, there are instances where creditors can lose their ranking and priority if they are considered to have taken over management of a borrower. The reorganization of a company can involve substantial legal, professional and administrative costs to a lender and the borrower; it is subject to unpredictable and lengthy delays; and during the process a company’s competitive position may erode, key management may depart and a company may not be able to invest adequately. In some cases, the debtor company may not be able to reorganize and may be required to liquidate assets. The debt of companies in financial reorganization will, in most cases, not pay current interest, may not accrue interest during reorganization and may be adversely affected by an erosion of the issuer’s fundamental value. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. For example, we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, if, among other things, the borrower requests significant managerial assistance from us and we provide such assistance as contemplated by the 1940 Act. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments, may be constrained in our ability to employ available funds, or otherwise may lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. However, doing so could be placing even more capital at risk. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we generally are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. We have applied for an exemptive order from the SEC that would permit us and certain of our affiliates, including investment funds managed by our affiliates, to co-invest. Any such order will be subject to certain terms and conditions and there can be no assurance that such order will be granted by the SEC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we or our affiliates, including investment funds managed by our affiliates, will be permitted to co-invest, other than in the limited circumstances currently permitted by regulatory guidance or in the absence of a joint transaction. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain various required state licenses. We may be required to obtain various state licenses in order to, among other things, originate commercial loans. Applying for and obtaining required licenses can be costly and take several months. There is no assurance that we will obtain all of the licenses that we need on a timely basis. Furthermore, we will be subject to various information and other requirements in order to obtain and maintain these licenses, and there is no assurance that we will satisfy those requirements. Our failure to obtain or maintain licenses might restrict investment options and have other adverse consequences. We have broad discretion over the use of proceeds of the funds we raise from investors and use proceeds in part to satisfy operating expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate a sufficient number of suitable investment opportunities to allow us to successfully deploy substantially all of the net proceeds of the offering in a timeframe that will permit investors to earn above-market returns. To the extent we are unable to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of the offering within our contemplated timeframe after the completion of the offering, our investment income, and in turn our results of operations, will likely be materially adversely affected. Our investments in foreign companies may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. We may also expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes (potentially at confiscatory levels), less liquid markets, less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although most of our investments will be U.S. dollar denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of 35 Table of Contents short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that such strategies will be effective or without risk to us. We may in the future enter into hedging transactions, which may expose us to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may include counter-party credit risk. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to (or be able to) establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. See also “RISK FACTORS—Risk Relating to Our Portfolio Company Investments—We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.” Our portfolio investments may present special tax issues. Investments in below-investment grade debt instruments and certain equity securities may present special tax issues for the Company. U.S. federal income tax rules are not entirely clear about issues such as when the Company may cease to accrue interest, original issue discount, or market discount, when and to what extent deductions may be taken for bad debts or worthless debt in equity securities, how payments received on obligations in default should be allocated between principal and income, as well as whether exchanges of debt instruments in a bankruptcy or workout context are taxable. Such matters could cause the Company to recognize taxable income for U.S. federal tax purposes and make taxable distributions to Company shareholders to preclude the imposition of either U.S. federal corporate income or excise taxation. Additionally, because such taxable income may not be matched by corresponding cash received by the Company, the Company may be required to borrow money or dispose of other investments to be able to make distributions to its shareholders. These and other issues will be considered by the Company, to the extent determined necessary, in order that the Company minimizes the level of any U.S. federal income or excise tax that the Company would otherwise incur. See “ITEM 1. Regulated Investment Company Classification.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 