ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware of various risks associated with the investment, including those described below. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure We are a recently formed company with relatively little operating history. We began our investing activities on July 8, 2011. As a result, we have relatively limited financial information on which you can evaluate an investment in our company or our prior performance. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially or your investment could become worthless. We are dependent upon management personnel of the Adviser, TSSP, TPG and their affiliates for our future success. We depend on the experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of senior members of our Investment Team. Our Investment Team, together with other professionals at TSSP and TPG and their affiliates, identifies, evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and manages our investments. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the senior members of our Investment 31 Table of Contents Team. The senior members of our Investment Team are not contractually restricted from leaving the Adviser. The departure of any of these key personnel, including members of our Adviser’s Investment Review Committee, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Adviser will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to TSSP, TPG or their investment professionals. The Investment Advisory Agreement may be terminated by either party without penalty upon at least 60 days’ written notice to the other party. The holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities may also terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement without penalty upon not less than 60 days’ written notice. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. See “Regulation as a Business Development Company” for a discussion of business development company limitations. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in securities of nonpublic or thinly traded U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. These constraints may hinder the Adviser’s ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise additional capital, and the ways in which we can do so. Raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage, and may result in dilution to our current stockholders. The 1940 Act limits our ability to incur borrowings and issue debt securities and preferred stock, which we refer to as senior securities, requiring that after any borrowing or issuance the ratio of total assets (less total liabilities other than indebtedness) to total indebtedness plus preferred stock, is at least 200%. Consequently, if the value of our assets declines, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when this may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. If we borrow money or issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. Although we currently have no plans to issue preferred stock, if we issue preferred stock, it would rank senior to common stock in our capital structure. Preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and may have other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. Holders of our common stock will directly or indirectly bear all of the costs associated with offering and servicing any preferred stock that we issue. In addition, any interests of preferred stockholders may not necessarily align with the interests of holders of our common stock and the rights of holders of shares of preferred stock to receive dividends would be senior to those of holders of shares of our common stock. Our Board may decide to issue additional common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. However, we generally are not able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We currently do not intend to sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock but we may elect to do so if our Board determines that a sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders and our stockholders approve it. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of those securities (less any distribution commission or discount). In the event we sell shares of our common stock at a 32 Table of Contents price below net asset value per share, existing stockholders will experience net asset value dilution and the investors who acquire shares in the offering may thereafter experience the same type of dilution from subsequent offerings at a discount. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we could securitize our investments to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize our investments, we likely would create a wholly owned subsidiary, contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary and have the subsidiary issue primarily investment grade debt securities to purchasers who we would expect would be willing to accept a substantially lower interest rate than the loans earn. We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. Our retained equity would be exposed to any losses on the portfolio of investments before any of the debt securities would be exposed to the losses. An inability to successfully securitize our investment portfolio could limit our ability to grow or fully execute our business and could adversely affect our earnings, if any. The successful securitization of our investment could expose us to losses because the portions of the securitized investments that we would typically retain tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act also may impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. In connection with any future securitization of investments, we may incur greater set-up and administration fees relating to such vehicles than we have in connection with financing of our investments in the past. See “—We may securitize certain of our investments, which may subject us to certain structured financing risks.” We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss and increases the risk of investing in us. As part of our business strategy, we borrow from and may in the future issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Holders of these loans or senior securities would have fixed-dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leverage will cause our net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have without leverage. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have if we had not borrowed. This decline could negatively affect our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock. Our ability to service our borrowings depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, the Management Fee is payable based on our gross assets, including cash and assets acquired through the use of leverage, which may give our Adviser an incentive to use leverage to make additional investments. See “—Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the Management Fee and, in certain circumstances, the Incentive Fee will still be payable to the Adviser.” The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Adviser’s and our Board’s assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. Our credit facilities also impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, remedies on default and similar matters. As of the date of this Annual Report, we are in compliance with the covenants of our credit facilities. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, although we believe we will continue to be in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will continue to comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default. If we were unable to obtain a waiver of a default from the lenders or holders of that indebtedness, as applicable, those lenders or holders could accelerate repayment under that indebtedness. An acceleration could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, we may be unable to obtain additional leverage, which would, in turn, affect our return on capital. As of December 31, 2013, we had $432.3 million of outstanding indebtedness, which would have an annualized interest cost of 2.5% under the terms of our credit facilities, excluding fees (such as fees on undrawn amounts and amortization of upfront fees), to the extent the amount remains outstanding. For us to cover these annualized interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our investments of at least 1.0%. Since we generally pay interest at a floating rate on our credit facilities, an increase in interest rates will generally increase our borrowing costs. 33 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before it matures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets or seeking additional equity. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would not be disadvantageous to our stockholders or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur borrowings, issue debt securities or issue preferred stock unless immediately after the borrowing or issuance the ratio of total assets (less total liabilities other than indebtedness) to total indebtedness plus preferred stock, is at least 200%. Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and you may face increased investment risk. In addition, since our Management Fee is calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets, which includes cash, cash equivalents and any borrowings for investment purposes, our Management Fee expenses will increase if we incur additional indebtedness. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Other public and private entities, including commercial banks, commercial financing companies, other BDCs and insurance companies compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in middle-market companies. Certain of these competitors may be substantially larger, have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have and offer a wider array of financial services. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, however, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. In addition, many competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the restrictions that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. As a result, we face additional constraints on our operations, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. If we are unable to source investments, access financing or manage future growth effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our Investment Team’s ability to identify, evaluate, finance and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms, including equity financing. Moreover, our ability to structure investments may also depend upon the participation of other prospective investors. For example, our ability to offer loans above a certain size and to structure loans 34 Table of Contents in a certain way may depend on our ability to partner with other investors. As a result, we could fail to capture some investment opportunities if we cannot provide “one-stop” financing to a potential portfolio company either alone or with other investment partners. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our Investment Team may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. To grow, our Adviser may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and ability to achieve our investment objective. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the Management Fee and, in certain circumstances, the Incentive Fee will still be payable to the Adviser. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the Management Fee and, in certain circumstances, the Incentive Fee will still be payable to the Adviser. The Management Fee is calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets at a specific time, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, and may give our Adviser an incentive to use leverage to make additional investments. In addition, the Management Fee is payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets or your investment have decreased. The use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock, including investors in offerings of common stock pursuant to this prospectus. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions that our Adviser will make on our behalf, we may not be able to monitor this potential conflict of interest. The Incentive Fee is calculated as a percentage of pre-Incentive Fee net investment income. Since pre-Incentive Fee net investment income does not include any realized capital gains, realized capital losses or unrealized capital appreciation or depreciation, it is possible that we may pay an Incentive Fee in a quarter where we incur a loss. For example, if we receive pre-Incentive Fee net investment income in excess of the quarterly minimum hurdle rate, we will pay the applicable Incentive Fee even if we have incurred a loss in that quarter due to realized and unrealized capital losses. In addition, because the quarterly minimum hurdle rate is calculated based on our net assets, decreases in our net assets due to realized or unrealized capital losses in any given quarter may increase the likelihood that the hurdle rate is reached in that quarter and, as a result, that an Incentive Fee is paid for that quarter. Our net investment income used to calculate this component of the Incentive Fee is also included in the amount of our gross assets used to calculate the Management Fee. Also, one component of the Incentive Fee is calculated annually based upon our realized capital gains, computed net of realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis. As a result, we may owe the Adviser an Incentive Fee during one year as a result of realized capital gains on certain investments, and then later incur significant realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on the remaining investments in our portfolio during subsequent years. Incentive Fees earned in prior years cannot be clawed back even if we later incur losses. In addition, the Incentive Fee payable by us to the Adviser may create an incentive for the Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such a compensation arrangement. The Adviser receives the Incentive Fee based, in part, upon capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the Incentive Fee that is based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains. As a result, the Adviser may have an incentive to invest more in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income-producing investments. Such a practice could result in our making more speculative investments than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. 35 Table of Contents To the extent that we do not realize income or choose not to retain after-tax realized net capital gains, we will have a greater need for additional capital to fund our investments and operating expenses. To maintain our status as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must distribute (or be treated as distributing) in each taxable year dividends for tax purposes equal to at least 90% of our investment company taxable income and net tax-exempt income for that taxable year, and may either distribute or retain our realized net capital gains from investments. Unless investors elect to reinvest dividends, earnings that we are required to distribute to stockholders will not be available to fund future investments. Accordingly, we may have insufficient funds to make new and follow-on investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the structure and objectives of our business, we may experience operating losses and expect to rely on proceeds from sales of investments, rather than on interest and dividend income, to pay our operating expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our investments and thereby fund our operating expenses. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, including as a result of our failure to satisfy the RIC distribution requirements. We will incur corporate-level U.S. federal income tax costs if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including as a result of our failure to satisfy the RIC distribution requirements. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to qualify for and maintain RIC status. To maintain RIC status under the Code and to avoid corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements: • We must distribute (or be treated as distributing) dividends for tax purposes in each taxable year equal to at least 90% of each of: • the sum of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses or, investment company taxable income, if any, for that taxable year; and • our net tax-exempt income for that taxable year. The asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under our loan and credit agreements could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. In addition, as discussed in more detail below, our income for tax purposes may exceed our available cash flow. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to satisfy the distribution requirements that apply to a RIC. As a result, we could lose our RIC status and become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. • We must derive at least 90% of our gross income for each taxable year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of or other disposition of stock or securities or similar sources. • We must meet specified asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. The need to satisfy these requirements to prevent the loss of RIC status may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly on unfavorable terms. Because most of our investments will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to maintain our qualification for tax treatment as a RIC for any reason, the resulting U.S. federal income tax liability could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions. 36 Table of Contents We can be expected to retain some income and capital gains in excess of what is permissible for excise tax purposes and such amounts will be subject to 4% U.S. federal excise tax. For the calendar years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we retained $3.0 million and $2.8 million of income and capital gains, respectively, in order to provide us with additional liquidity and we recorded a net expense of $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, for U.S. federal excise tax as a result. We can be expected to retain some income and capital gains in the future, including for purposes of providing us with additional liquidity, which amounts would similarly be subject to the 4% U.S. federal excise tax. In that event, we will be liable for the tax on the amount by which we do not meet the foregoing distribution requirement. See “ITEM 1. BUSINESS—Regulation as a Business Development Company—Regulated Investment Company Classification for more information.” Our Adviser and its affiliates, officers and employees may face certain conflicts of interest. TSSP and TPG will refer all middle-market loan origination activities for companies domiciled in the United States to us and conduct those activities through us. The Adviser will determine whether it would be permissible, advisable or otherwise appropriate for us to pursue a particular investment opportunity allocated to us by TSSP and TPG. However, the Adviser, its officers and employees and members of its Investment Review Committee serve or may serve as investment advisers, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as us or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, any affiliated investment vehicle currently formed or formed in the future and managed by the Adviser or its affiliates, particularly in connection with any future growth of their respective businesses, may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. For example, TSSP or TPG may in the future organize a separate investment vehicle aimed specifically at non-U.S. middle-market loan originations or other loan origination opportunities outside our primary focus. Our ability to pursue investment opportunities other than middle-market loan originations for companies domiciled in the United States is subject to the contractual and other requirements of these other funds and allocation decisions by TSSP or TPG senior professionals. As a result, the Adviser and its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and those other entities. It is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other TSSP or TPG vehicles that would otherwise be suitable for us. If TPG and the Adviser were to determine that an investment is appropriate both for us and for one or more other TSSP or TPG vehicles, we would only be able to make the investment in conjunction with another vehicle if we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so or the investment is otherwise permitted under relevant SEC guidance. We have applied for an order permitting certain co-investment transactions relating to middle-market loan originations for companies domiciled in the United States and certain follow-on investments in companies in which we have already invested, but we cannot assure you when or whether the order will be obtained. See “Related-Party Transactions and Certain Relationships.” Our Adviser can resign on 60 days’ notice. We may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations and a loss of the benefits from our relationship with TSSP and TPG. The Adviser has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, regardless of whether we have found a replacement. In addition, our Board has the authority to remove the Adviser for any reason or for no reason, or may choose not to renew the Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement. If the Adviser resigns or is terminated, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If 37 Table of Contents we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption and costs under any new agreements that we enter into could increase. Our financial condition, business and results of operations, as well as our ability to pay distributions, are likely to be adversely affected, and the value of our common stock may decline. Any new Investment Advisory Agreement also would be subject to approval by our stockholders. Even if we are able to enter into comparable management or administrative arrangements, the integration of a new adviser or administrator and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Adviser resigns or is terminated, we would lose the benefits of our relationship with TSSP and TPG, including insights into our existing portfolio, market expertise, sector and macroeconomic views and due diligence capabilities, as well as any investment opportunities referred to us by TSSP and TPG. We also would no longer be able to use TPG’s name and logo because our license agreement would terminate upon the termination of the Investment Advisory Agreement. The Adviser’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we are required to indemnify the Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead the Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. The Adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the Investment Advisory Agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board in declining to follow the Adviser’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Adviser and its members, managers, officers, employees, agents, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with it will not be liable to us for any action taken or omitted to be taken by the Adviser in connection with the performance of any of its duties or obligations under the Investment Advisory Agreement or otherwise as our investment adviser (except to the extent specified in Section 36(b) of the 1940 Act concerning loss resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty (as the same is finally determined by judicial proceedings) with respect to the receipt of compensation for services). We have agreed to the fullest extent permitted by law, to provide indemnification and the right to the advancement of expenses, to each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved (including as a witness) in any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, because he or she is or was a member, manager, officer, employee, agent, controlling person or any other person or entity affiliated with the Adviser with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of the Adviser in the performance of the person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. Our obligation to provide indemnification and advancement of expenses is subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act and Investment Company Act Release No. 11330, which, among other things, preclude indemnification for any liability (whether or not there is an adjudication of liability or the matter has been settled) arising by reason of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, and require reasonable and fair means for determining whether indemnification will be made. Despite these limitations, the rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses may lead the Adviser and its members, managers, officers, employees, agents, controlling persons and other persons and entities affiliated with the Adviser to act in a riskier manner than they would when acting for their own account. Prior to our incorporation, the Adviser and its management had no prior experience managing a BDC or a RIC. Prior to our incorporation, the senior members of our Investment Team had no experience managing a BDC or a RIC, and the investment philosophy and techniques used by the Adviser to manage us may differ from the investment philosophy and techniques previously employed by the senior members of our Investment Team in identifying and managing past investments. Accordingly, our performance may differ from the performance of other businesses or companies with which the senior members of our Investment Team have been affiliated. 38 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results as a result of a number of factors, including the pace at which investments are made, rates of repayment, interest rates payable on investments, changes in realized and unrealized gains and losses, amendment and syndication fees, the level of our expenses and default rates on our investments. As a result of these and other possible factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of the Adviser, its affiliates and third parties. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; • disease pandemics; • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and • cyber-attacks. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our Board may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our Board has the authority to change our investment objective and modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice (except as required by the 1940 Act) and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be a BDC and we may not withdraw our election as a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies or strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our common stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws and regulations at the local, state, federal and, in some cases, foreign levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, changes in their interpretation, or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain business practices 39 Table of Contents of us or our portfolio companies, negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In particular, changes to the laws and regulations governing BDCs or the interpretation of these laws and regulations by the staff of the SEC could disrupt our business model. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations may cause us to alter our investment strategy to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. For more information on tax regulatory risks, see “—Unless Congress renews certain exemptions that expired for taxable years commencing after December 31, 2013, certain dividend distributions we make to certain non-U.S. stockholders will be subject to U.S. withholding tax.” On July 21, 2010, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. Although passage of the Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in extensive rulemaking and regulatory changes that affect us and the financial industry as a whole, many of its provisions remain subject to extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. Over the last several years, there has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether these regulations will be implemented or what form they will take, increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could negatively impact our operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or otherwise adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Economic Conditions The current state of the economy and financial markets increases the likelihood of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. Disruptions in the capital markets increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. Although recent indicators suggest improvement in the capital markets, we cannot assure you that these conditions will not worsen. If conditions worsen, a prolonged period of market illiquidity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, to the extent that recessionary conditions return, the financial results of small to mid-sized companies, like those in which we invest, will likely experience deterioration, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting debt service requirements and an increase in defaults. Additionally, the end markets for certain of our portfolio companies’ products and services have experienced, and continue to experience, negative economic trends. The performances of certain of our portfolio companies have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by these economic or other conditions, which may ultimately result in: • our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies; 40 Table of Contents • decreases in the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments; and • ultimately, losses or charge-offs related to our investments. Uncertainty about financial stability could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government’s credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. Further, Moody’s and Fitch warned that they may downgrade the federal government’s credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the government’s credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock. Also, to the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. On December 18, 2013, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it would scale back its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which is designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. The Federal Reserve signaled it would reduce its purchases of long-term Treasury bonds and would scale back on its purchases of mortgage-backed securities. It is unclear what effect, if any, the incremental reduction in the rate of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monthly purchases will have on the value of our investments. However, it is possible that absent continued quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. A failure or the perceived risk of a failure to raise the statutory debt limit of the United States, or a shutdown of the United States federal government, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As widely reported, the federal government may not be able to meet its debt payments in the relatively near future unless the federal debt ceiling is raised. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted and the debt ceiling is reached, the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations. A failure by Congress to raise the debt limit would increase the risk of default by the United States on its obligations, as well as the risk of other economic dislocations. If the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution before the expiration of the current continuing resolution, a federal government shutdown may result. Such a failure or the perceived risk of such a failure consequently could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. It could also limit our ability and the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain financing, and it could have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our portfolio companies. Consequently, the continued uncertainty in the general economic environment, including the recent government shutdown and potential debt ceiling implications, as well in specific economies of several individual geographic markets in which our portfolio companies operate, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We intend to continue making distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC or restrictions under our credit facilities, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Although a portion of our expected earnings and dividend distributions will be attributable to net interest income, we do not expect to generate capital gains from the sale of our portfolio investments on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. This may result in substantial fluctuations in our quarterly dividend payments. In some cases where we receive certain upfront fees in connection with loans we originate, we treat the loan as having OID under applicable accounting and tax regulations, even though we have received the corresponding cash. In other cases, however, we may recognize income before or without receiving the corresponding cash, including in connection with the accretion of OID. For other risks associated with debt obligations treated as having OID, see “—There are certain risks associated with holding debt obligations that have original issue discount or PIK.” Therefore, we may be required to make a distribution to our shareholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement necessary to qualify for and maintain RIC tax treatment under Subchapter M of the Code, even though we may not have received the corresponding cash amount. Accordingly, we may have to sell investments at times we would not otherwise consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thereby be subject to corporate-level income tax. In addition, the withholding tax treatment of our distributions to certain of our non-U.S. stockholders depends on whether and when Congress enacts legislation extending the pass-through treatment of “interest-related dividends.” This treatment expired for taxable years commencing after December 31, 2013. See “Regulated Investment Company Classification.” To the extent that the amounts distributed by us exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, these excess distributions will be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of a stockholder’s tax basis in his or her shares and then as capital gain. Reducing a stockholder’s tax basis will have the effect of increasing his or her gain (or reducing loss) on a subsequent sale of shares. That part of the Incentive Fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the Incentive Fee will become uncollectible. Consequently, while we may make Incentive Fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against our investment adviser, the amount of accrued income written off in any period will reduce the income in the period in which the write-off is taken and thereby reduce that period’s Incentive Fee payment, if any. In addition, the middle-market companies in which we intend to invest may be more susceptible to economic downturns than larger operating companies, and therefore may be more likely to default on their payment obligations to us during recessionary periods. Any such defaults could substantially reduce our net investment income available for distribution in the form of dividends to our stockholders. You may be subject to filing requirements under the 1934 Act as a result of your investment in the Company. Because our common stock is registered under the 1934 Act, ownership information for any person who beneficially owns 5% or more of our common stock will have to be disclosed in a Schedule 13G or other filings 42 Table of Contents with the SEC. Beneficial ownership for these purposes is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and includes having voting or investment power over the securities. In some circumstances, investors who choose to reinvest their dividends may see their percentage stake in the Company increased to more than 5%, thus triggering this filing requirement. Although we will provide in our quarterly statements the amount of outstanding shares and the amount of the investor’s shares, the responsibility for determining the filing obligation and preparing the filing remains with the investor. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan. We have adopted a dividend reinvestment plan, pursuant to which the Company will reinvest all cash dividends declared by the Board on behalf of investors who do not elect to receive their dividends in cash. As a result, if the Board authorizes, and we declare, a cash dividend or other distribution, then our stockholders who have not opted out of our dividend reinvestment plan will have their cash distributions automatically reinvested in additional common stock, rather than receiving the cash dividend or other distribution. See “ITEM 1. Our Business—Dividend Policy” and “ITEM 1. Our Business—Dividend Reinvestment Plan” for a description of our dividend policy and obligations. Stockholders that opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Company Investments Our investments are very risky and highly speculative. We primarily invest in first-lien debt, second-lien debt, mezzanine debt or equity securities issued by middle-market companies. The companies in which we intend to invest are typically highly leveraged, and, in most cases, our investments in these companies are not rated by any rating agency. If these instruments were rated, we believe that they would likely receive a rating of below investment grade (that is, below BBB- or Baa3). Exposure to below investment grade instruments involves certain risks, including speculation with respect to the borrower’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. First-Lien Debt. When we make a first-lien loan, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise, and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien is, or could become, subordinated to claims of other creditors. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we need to enforce our remedies. In addition, in connection with our “last out” first-lien loans, we enter into agreements among lenders. Under these agreements, our interest in the collateral of the first-lien loans may rank junior to those of other lenders in the loan under certain circumstances. This may result in greater risk and loss of principal on these loans. Second-Lien and Mezzanine Debt. Our investments in second-lien and mezzanine debt generally are subordinated to senior loans and will either have junior security interests or be unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of insolvency. This may result in greater risk and loss of principal. Equity Investments. When we invest in first-lien debt, second-lien debt or mezzanine debt, we may acquire equity securities, such as warrants, options and convertible instruments, as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. We seek to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of these interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 43 Table of Contents Preferred Stock. To the extent we invest in preferred securities, we may incur particular risks, including: • preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for U.S. federal income tax purposes before we receive such distributions; • preferred securities are subordinated to bonds and other debt instruments in a company’s capital structure in terms of priority to corporate income and liquidation payments, and therefore are subject to greater credit risk than more senior debt instruments; and • generally, preferred security holders have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company unless preferred dividends have been in arrears for a specified number of periods, at which time the preferred security holders may elect a number of directors to the issuer’s board; generally, once all the arrearages have been paid, the preferred security holders no longer have voting rights. In addition, our investments generally involve a number of significant risks, including: • the companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • the companies in which we invest typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • the companies in which we invest are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • the companies in which we invest generally have less predictable operating results, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • our executive officers, directors and Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; • the companies in which we invest generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition and, if we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision; and • the companies in which we invest may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. The value of most of our portfolio securities will not have a readily available market price and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board, which valuation is inherently subjective, may not reflect what we may actually realize for the sale of the investment and could result in a conflict of interest with the Adviser. Investments are valued at the end of each fiscal quarter. The majority of our investments are expected to be in loans that do not have readily ascertainable market prices. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded or whose market prices are not readily available are determined in good faith by the Board, which is supported by the valuation committee of our Adviser and by the audit committee of our Board. The Board has retained independent third-party valuation firms to perform certain limited third-party valuation services that the 44 Table of Contents Board identified and requested them to perform. In accordance with our valuation policy, our Investment Team prepares portfolio company valuations using sources or proprietary models depending on the availability of information on our investments and the type of asset being valued. The participation of the Adviser in our valuation process could result in a conflict of interest, since the Management Fee is based in part on our gross assets. Factors that we may consider in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to similar publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because fair valuations, and particularly fair valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are often based to a large extent on estimates, comparisons and qualitative evaluations of private information, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been determined if a ready market for these securities existed. This could make it more difficult for investors to value accurately our portfolio investments and could lead to undervaluation or overvaluation of our common stock. In addition, the valuation of these types of securities may result in substantial write-downs and earnings volatility. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio can reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer unrealized losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make loans to private companies. There may not be a ready market for our loans and certain loans may contain transfer restrictions, which may also limit liquidity. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell positions if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we hold a significant portion of a company’s equity or if we have material non-public information regarding that company. Our portfolio may be focused on a limited number of portfolio companies or industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio is currently invested in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries and may continue to be in the near future. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification. While we expect that no single investment will represent more than 15% of our investment portfolio, based on fair value, and are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be focused on relatively few industries. For example, although we classify the industries of our portfolio companies by end-market (such as healthcare and pharmaceuticals, and business services) and not by the products or services (such as software) directed to those end-markets, many of our portfolio companies principally provide software products or services, which exposes us to downturns in that sector. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly affect our aggregate returns. 45 Table of Contents We may securitize certain of our investments, which may subject us to certain structured financing risks. Although we have not done so to date, we may securitize certain of our investments in the future, including through the formation of one or more collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, while retaining all or most of the exposure to the performance of these investments. This would involve contributing a pool of assets to a special purpose entity, and selling debt interests in that entity on a non-recourse or limited-recourse basis to purchasers. For example, we could use our wholly owned subsidiary, TPG SL SPV, LLC, which holds the assets that support our asset-backed credit facility, the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Security Agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, TPG SL SPV, LLC, and Natixis, New York Branch, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility (Natixis), to form a CLO or other securitization vehicle in the future. If we were to create a CLO or other securitization vehicle, we would depend on distributions from the vehicle to make distributions to our stockholders. The ability of a CLO or other securitization vehicle to make distributions will be subject to various limitations, including the terms and covenants of the debt it issues. For example, tests (based on interest coverage or other financial ratios or other criteria) may restrict our ability, as holder of a CLO or other securitization vehicle equity interest, to receive cash flow from these investments. We cannot assure you that any such performance tests would be satisfied. Also, a CLO or other securitization vehicle may take actions that delay distributions to preserve ratings and to keep the cost of present and future financings lower or the financing vehicle may be obligated to retain cash or other assets to satisfy over-collateralization requirements commonly provided for holders of its debt. As a result, there may be a lag, which could be significant, between the repayment or other realization on a loan or other assets in, and the distribution of cash out of, a CLO or other securitization vehicle, or cash flow may be completely restricted for the life of the CLO or other securitization vehicle. In addition, a decline in the credit quality of loans in a CLO or other securitization vehicle due to poor operating results of the relevant borrower, declines in the value of loan collateral or increases in defaults, among other things, may force the sale of certain assets at a loss, reducing their earnings and, in turn, cash potentially available for distribution to us for distribution to our stockholders. If we were to form a CLO or other securitization vehicle, to the extent that any losses were incurred by the financing vehicle in respect of any collateral, these losses would be borne first by us as owners of its equity interests. Any equity interests that we were to retain in a CLO or other securitization vehicle would not be secured by its assets and we would rank behind all of its creditors. We may be exposed to many of the same risks as described above with respect to our wholly owned subsidiary that supports our Revolving Credit Facility (Natixis). However, in the event we formed a CLO or other securitization vehicle, many of the risks described above would be heightened because we may incur a higher degree of leverage under a CLO or other securitization vehicle than we are permitted to incur under our Revolving Credit Facility (Natixis). Nonetheless, a CLO or other securitization vehicle, if created, also would likely be consolidated in our financial statements and consequently affect our asset coverage ratio, which may limit our ability to incur additional leverage. See “Regulation.” Because we currently do not hold, and likely will not hold, controlling interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over those portfolio companies or prevent decisions by management of those portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We are a lender, and loans (and any equity investments we make) will be non-controlling investments, meaning we will not be in a position to control the management, operation and strategic decision-making of the companies we invest in (outside of, potentially, the context of a restructuring, insolvency or similar event). As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company we do not control, or in which we do not have a majority ownership position, may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the equity holders and 46 Table of Contents management of such a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. We may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event that we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. The majority of our debt investments are based on floating rates, such as LIBOR, EURIBOR, the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. On one hand, a reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could have an adverse impact on our net interest income, which also could be negatively impacted by our borrowers making prepayments on their loans. On the other hand, an increase in interest rates could increase the interest repayment obligations of our borrowers and result in challenges to their financial performance and ability to repay their obligations. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of any investments we hold that earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Moreover, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. A rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase in the amount of the Incentive Fee payable to the Adviser. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. See “—We expose ourselves to risks when we engage in hedging transactions.” We may not be able to realize expected returns on our invested capital. We may not realize expected returns on our investment in a portfolio company due to changes in the portfolio company’s financial position or due to an acquisition of the portfolio company. If a portfolio company repays our loans prior to their maturity, we may not receive our expected returns on our invested capital. Many of our investments are structured to provide a disincentive for the borrower to pre-pay or call the security, but this call protection may not cover the full expected value of an investment if that investment is repaid prior to maturity. Middle-market companies operate in a highly acquisitive market with frequent mergers and buyouts. If a portfolio company is acquired or merged with another company prior to drawing on our commitment, we would not realize our expected return. Similarly, in many cases companies will seek to restructure or repay their debt investments or buy our other equity ownership positions as part of an acquisition or merger transaction, which may result in a repayment of debt or other reduction of our investment. By originating loans to companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, we may be exposed to distressed lending risks. As part of our lending activities, we may originate loans to companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, including companies involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization and liquidation proceedings. Although the terms of such financing may result in significant financial returns to us, they involve a substantial degree of risk. The level of analytical sophistication, both financial and legal, necessary for successful financing to companies experiencing significant business and financial difficulties is 47 Table of Contents unusually high. We cannot assure you that we will correctly evaluate the value of the assets collateralizing our loans or the prospects for a successful reorganization or similar action. In any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relating to a company that we fund, we may lose all or part of the amounts advanced to the borrower or may be required to accept collateral with a value less than the amount of the loan advanced by us to the borrower. Our portfolio companies in some cases may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in those companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments. By their terms, those instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investments. These debt instruments would usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under the debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company typically would be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying those holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing certain loans we make to our portfolio companies may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements or agreements among lenders. Under these agreements, we may forfeit certain rights with respect to the collateral to holders with prior claims. These rights may include the right to commence enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the right to control the conduct of those enforcement proceedings, the right to approve amendments to collateral documents, the right to release liens on the collateral and the right to waive past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if as a result our rights as lenders are adversely affected. We may be exposed to special risks associated with bankruptcy cases. One or more of our portfolio companies may be involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization or liquidation proceedings. Many of the events within a bankruptcy case are adversarial and often beyond the control of the creditors. While creditors generally are afforded an opportunity to object to significant actions, we cannot assure you that a bankruptcy court would not approve actions that may be contrary to our interests. There also are instances where creditors can lose their ranking and priority if they are considered to have taken over management of a borrower. The reorganization of a company can involve substantial legal, professional and administrative costs to a lender and the borrower; it is subject to unpredictable and lengthy delays; and during the process a company’s competitive position may erode, key management may depart and a company may not be able to invest adequately. In some cases, the debtor company may not be able to reorganize and may be required to liquidate assets. The debt of companies in financial reorganization will, in most cases, not pay current interest, may not accrue interest during reorganization and may be adversely affected by an erosion of the issuer’s fundamental value. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. For example, we could become subject to a lender liability claim (alleging that we misused our influence on the borrower for the benefit of its lenders), if, among other things, the borrower requests significant managerial assistance from us and we provide that assistance. 48 Table of Contents Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments to: • increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; • exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or • attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments, may be constrained in our ability to employ available funds, or otherwise may lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. However, doing so could be placing even more capital at risk in existing portfolio companies. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our Independent Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we generally are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our Independent Directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our Independent Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. The decision by TSSP, TPG or our Adviser to allocate an opportunity to another entity could cause us to forgo an investment opportunity that we otherwise would have made. We also generally will be unable to invest in any issuer in which TPG and its other affiliates or a fund managed by TPG or its other affiliates has previously invested or in which they are making an investment. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We have applied for an exemptive order from the SEC that would permit us and certain of our affiliates, including investment funds managed by our affiliates, to co-invest. The order would be subject to certain terms and conditions and we cannot assure you that the order will be granted by the SEC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we or our affiliates, including investment funds managed by our affiliates, will be permitted to co-invest, other than in the limited circumstances currently permitted by regulatory guidance. 49 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain various required licenses in U.S. states or in any other jurisdiction where they may be required in the future. We are required to have and may be required in the future to obtain various state licenses to, among other things, originate commercial loans, and may be required to obtain similar licenses from other authorities, including outside of the United States, in the future in connection with one or more investments. Applying for and obtaining required licenses can be costly and take several months. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or obtain all of the licenses that we need on a timely basis. We also are and will be subject to various information and other requirements to maintain and obtain these licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those requirements. Our failure to maintain or obtain licenses that we require, now or in the future, might restrict investment options and have other adverse consequences. Our investments in foreign companies may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy may include potential investments in foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes (potentially at confiscatory levels), less liquid markets, less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, interest income derived from loans to foreign companies is not eligible to be distributed to our non-U.S. stockholders free from withholding taxes. Although most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that such strategies will be effective or without risk to us. We expose ourselves to risks when we engage in hedging transactions. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into hedging transactions, which may expose us to risks associated with such transactions. We may seek to utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may include counter-party credit risk. To the extent we have non-U.S. investments, particularly investments denominated in non-U.S. currencies, our hedging costs will increase. We also have the ability to borrow in certain foreign currencies under our second amended and restated senior secured revolving credit agreement with SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent, and certain lenders, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility (SunTrust). Instead of entering into a foreign exchange forward contract in connection with loans or other investments we have made that are denominated in a foreign currency, we may borrow in that currency to establish a natural hedge against our loan or investment. To the extent the loan or investment is based on a floating rate other than a rate under which we can borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility (SunTrust), we may seek to utilize interest rate derivatives to hedge our exposure to changes in the associated rate. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the 50 Table of Contents decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. It also may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging strategy will depend on our ability to correctly identify appropriate exposures for hedging. To date, we have entered into hedging transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate risk. However, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or other exposures that we might hedge may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary, as may the time period in which the hedge is effective relative to the time period of the related exposure. For a variety of reasons, we may not seek to (or be able to) establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Income derived from hedging transactions also is not eligible to be distributed to non-U.S. stockholders free from withholding taxes. See also “—We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Hedging.” Finally, recent and anticipated regulatory changes require that certain types of swaps, including interest rate and credit default swaps, be cleared and traded on regulated platforms, and these regulatory changes are expected to apply to foreign exchange transactions in the future. Regulators also are expected to impose margin requirements for derivatives that are not cleared. These new requirements could significantly increase the cost of using swaps to hedge our interest rate and foreign exchange risk, and could increase our exposure to these risks. If we cease to be eligible for an exemption from regulation as a commodity pool operator, our compliance expenses could increase substantially. Our Adviser has been granted relief under a no-action letter, known as Letter 12-40, issued by the staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC. Letter 12-40 relieves our Adviser from registering with the CFTC as the commodity pool operator, or CPO of us, so long as we: • continue to be regulated by the SEC as a BDC; • confine our trading in CFTC-regulated derivatives within specified thresholds; and • are not marketed to the public as a commodity pool or as a vehicle for trading in CFTC-regulated derivatives. If we were not to satisfy the conditions of Letter 12-40 in the future, our Adviser may be subject to registration with the CFTC as a CPO. Registered CPOs must comply with numerous substantive regulations related to disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping, and are required to become members of the National Futures Association, or the NFA, and be subject to the NFA’s rules and bylaws. Compliance with these additional registration and regulatory requirements could increase our expenses and impact performance. The Adviser previously relied on the exemption from registration in CFTC Rule 4.13(a)(3), which is not available for advisers of companies whose stock is marketed to the public. Our portfolio investments may present special tax issues. Investments in below-investment grade debt instruments and certain equity securities may present special tax issues for us. U.S. federal income tax rules are not entirely clear about issues, including when we may cease 51 Table of Contents to accrue interest, original issue discount or market discount, when and to what extent certain deductions may be taken for bad debts or worthless equity securities, how payments received on obligations in default should be allocated between principal and interest income, as well as whether exchanges of debt instruments in a bankruptcy or workout context are taxable. These matters could cause us to recognize taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even in the absence of cash or economic gain, and require us to make taxable distributions to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status or preclude the imposition of either U.S. federal corporate income or excise taxation. Additionally, because such taxable income may not be matched by corresponding cash received by us, we may be required to borrow money or dispose of other investments to be able to make distributions to our stockholders. These and other issues will be considered by us, to the extent determined necessary, so that we aim to minimize the level of any U.S. federal income or excise tax that we would otherwise incur. See “ITEM 1. BUSINESS—Regulation as a Business Development Company—Regulated Investment Company Classification for more information.” Unless Congress renews certain exemptions that expired for taxable years commencing after December 31, 2013, certain dividend distributions we make to certain non-U.S. stockholders will be subject to U.S. withholding tax. In recent years, Congress has renewed the rules under which dividend distributions by RICs paid out of interest income, which we refer to as interest-related dividends, qualified for a generally applicable exemption from U.S. withholding tax. As a result, a non-U.S. stockholder could receive interest-related dividends free of U.S. withholding tax if (as normally would be the case) the stockholder would not have been subject to U.S. withholding tax if it had received the underlying interest income directly. This exemption expired for taxable years commencing after December 31, 2013. Further legislation will be required to make the exemption available with respect to such taxable years. We cannot assure you that Congress will extend the pass-through rules for taxable years commencing after December 31, 2013, or that any such extension will apply to all dividends that we distribute in such taxable years. A failure to extend the exemption for interest-related dividends would not affect the treatment of non-U.S. stockholders that qualify for an exemption from U.S. withholding tax on dividends by reason of their special status (for example, foreign government-related entities and certain pension funds resident in favorable treaty jurisdictions). There are certain risks associated with holding debt obligations that have original issue discount or PIK. Original issue discount, or OID, may arise if we hold securities issued at a discount, receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan, through contractual payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest (meaning interest paid in the form of additional principal amount of the loan instead of in cash), or in certain other circumstances. OID creates the risk that Incentive Fees will be paid to the Adviser based on non-cash accruals that ultimately may not be realized, while the Adviser will be under no obligation to reimburse us for these fees. The higher interest rates of OID instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans. Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation. OID instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID income may also create uncertainty about the source of our cash distributions. For accounting purposes, any cash distributions to shareholders representing OID income are not treated as coming from paid-in capital, even if the cash to pay them comes from the proceeds of issuances of our common stock. As a result, despite the fact that a distribution representing OID income could be paid out of amounts invested by our stockholders, the 1940 Act does not require that stockholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital. 52 Table of Contents PIK interest has the effect of generating investment income at a compounding rate, thereby further increasing the Incentive Fees payable to the Adviser. Similarly, all things being equal, the deferral associated with PIK interest also increases the loan-to-value ratio at a compounding rate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 