D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of the risks described below occur. As a result, the market price of our class A shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks facing our company or investments in Latin America and the Caribbean described below and elsewhere in this annual report. Certain Factors Relating to Our Business Our rights to operate and franchise McDonald’s-branded restaurants are dependent on the MFAs, the expiration of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our rights to operate and franchise McDonald’s-branded restaurants in the Territories, and therefore our ability to conduct our business, derive exclusively from the rights granted to us by McDonald’s in two MFAs through 2027. The initial term of the franchise for French Guiana, Guadeloupe and Martinique expires in 2017, which we may extend for an additional 10-year term at our sole discretion. As a result, our ability to continue operating in our current capacity following the initial term of the MFAs is dependent on the renewal of our contractual relationship with McDonald’s. McDonald’s has the right, in its reasonable business judgment based on our satisfaction of certain criteria set forth in the MFA, to grant us an option to extend the term of the MFAs with respect to all Territories for an additional period of 10 years after the expiration of the initial term of the MFAs upon such terms as McDonald’s may determine. Pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s will determine whether to grant us the option to renew between August 2020 and August 2024. If McDonald’s grants us the option to renew and we elect to exercise the option, then we and McDonald’s will amend the MFAs to reflect the terms of such renewal option, as appropriate. We cannot assure you that McDonald’s will grant us an option to extend the term of the MFAs or that the terms of any renewal option will be acceptable to us, will be similar to those contained in the MFAs or that the terms will not be less favorable to us than those contained in the MFAs. If McDonald’s elects not to grant us the renewal option or we elect not to exercise the renewal option, we will have a three-year period in which to solicit offers for our business, which offers would be subject to McDonald’s approval. Upon the expiration of the MFAs, McDonald’s has the option to acquire all of our non-public shares and all of the equity interests of our wholly owned subsidiary Arcos Dourados Comercio de Alimentos Ltda., the master franchisee of McDonald’s for Brazil, at their fair market value. In the event McDonald’s does not exercise its option to acquire LatAm, LLC and Arcos Dourados Comercio de Alimentos Ltda., the MFAs would expire and we would be required to cease operating McDonald’s-branded restaurants, identifying our business with McDonald’s and using any of McDonald’s intellectual property. Although we would retain our real estate and infrastructure, the MFAs prohibit us from engaging in certain competitive businesses, including Burger King, Subway, KFC or any other quick-service restaurant, or QSR, business, or duplicating the McDonald’s system at another restaurant or business during the two-year period following the expiration of the MFAs. As the McDonald’s brand and our relationship with McDonald’s are among our primary competitive strengths, the expiration of the MFAs for any of the reasons described above would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 14 Table of Contents Our business depends on our relationship with McDonald’s and changes in this relationship may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our rights to operate and franchise McDonald’s-branded restaurants in the Territories, and therefore our ability to conduct our business, derive exclusively from the rights granted to us by McDonald’s in the MFAs. As a result, our revenues are dependent on the continued existence of our contractual relationship with McDonald’s. Pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s has the ability to exercise substantial influence over the conduct of our business. For example, under the MFAs, we are not permitted to operate any other QSR chains, we must comply with McDonald’s high quality standards, we must own and operate at least 50% of all McDonald’s-branded restaurants in the Territories, we must maintain certain guarantees in favor of McDonald’s, including a standby letter of credit (or other similar financial guarantee acceptable to McDonald’s) in an amount of $80.0 million, to secure our payment obligations under the MFAs and related credit documents, we cannot incur debt above certain financial ratios, we cannot transfer the equity interests of our subsidiaries, any significant portion of their assets or any of the real estate properties we own without McDonald’s consent, and McDonald’s has the right to approve the appointment of our chief executive officer and chief operating officer. In addition, the MFAs require us to reinvest a significant amount of money, including through reimaging our existing restaurants, opening new restaurants and advertising, which plans McDonald’s has the right to approve. We are required under the MFAs to open 250 restaurants and to spend $180 million from 2014 through 2016 to satisfy our reinvestment commitments. In addition, we estimate that the cost to comply with our restaurant opening commitments under the MFAs from 2014 through 2016 will be between $175 million and $350 million depending on, among other factors, the type and location of the restaurants we open. We cannot assure you that we will have available the funds necessary to finance these commitments, and their satisfaction may require us to incur additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain additional indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Failure to comply with these commitments could constitute a material breach of the MFAs and may lead to a termination by McDonald’s of the MFAs. Currently, we have submitted to McDonald’s a proposal for an amendment to the 2014-2016 opening and reinvestment plans, in order to adjust these plans to the current economic realities of the region. No assurances can be given, however, that we will be able to come to an agreement with McDonald’s on an amendment to these plans. Notwithstanding the foregoing, McDonald’s has no obligation to fund our operations. In addition, McDonald’s does not guarantee any of our financial obligations, including trade payables or outstanding indebtedness, and has no obligation to do so. If the terms of the MFAs excessively restrict our ability to operate our business or if we are unable to satisfy our restaurant opening and reinvestment commitments under the MFAs, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. For certain periods of 2014, McDonald’s Corporation granted us a limited waiver for our non-compliance with certain quarterly financial ratios specified in the MFA, a failure to extend such waiver or comply with our original commitments could result in a material breach of the MFA. During certain periods of 2014, we were not in compliance with certain quarterly financial ratios specified in the MFA. We have obtained a limited waiver from McDonald’s Corporation for a six-month period (from and as of June 30, 2014 through and including December 31, 2014). We are currently negotiating an extension of this waiver. During the waiver period we were not required to maintain these quarterly financial ratios, however, we will need to obtain an extension of the MFA waiver to avoid breaching our commitments under the MFA. If we are unable to obtain an extension of the waiver or to comply with our original commitments under the MFA, we could be in material breach. Our breach of the MFA would give McDonald’s certain rights, including the ability to acquire all or portions of our business. See “Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts—The MFAs.” McDonald’s has the right to acquire all or portions of our business upon the occurrence of certain events and, in the case of a material breach of the MFAs, may acquire our non-public shares or our interests in one or more Territories at 80% of their fair market value. Pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s has the right to acquire our non-public shares or our interests in one or more Territories upon the occurrence of certain events, including the death or permanent incapacity of our controlling 15 Table of Contents shareholder or a material breach of the MFAs. In the event McDonald’s were to exercise its right to acquire all of our non-public shares, McDonald’s would become our controlling shareholder. McDonald’s has the option to acquire all, but not less than all, of our non-public shares at 100% of their fair market value during the twelve-month period following the eighteenth-month anniversary of the death or permanent incapacity of Mr. Staton, our Chairman, CEO and controlling shareholder. In addition, if there is a material breach that relates to one or more Territories in which there are at least 100 restaurants in operation, McDonald’s has the right either to acquire all of our non-public shares or our interests in our subsidiaries in such Territory or Territories. By contrast, if the initial material breach of the MFAs affects or is attributable to any of the Territories in which there are less than 100 restaurants in operation, McDonald’s only has the right to acquire the equity interests of any of our subsidiaries in the relevant Territory. For example, since we have more than 100 restaurants in Mexico, if a Mexican subsidiary were to materially breach the MFA, McDonald’s would have the right either to acquire our entire business throughout Latin America and the Caribbean or just our Mexican operations, whereas upon a similar breach by our Ecuadorean subsidiary, McDonald’s would only have the right to acquire our interests in our operations in Ecuador. McDonald’s was granted a perfected security interest in the equity interests of LatAm, LLC, Arcos Dourados Comercio de Alimentos Ltda. and certain of their subsidiaries to protect this right. In the event this right is exercised as a result of a material breach of the MFAs, the amount to be paid by McDonald’s would be equal to 80% of the fair market value of the acquired equity interests. If McDonald’s exercises its right to acquire our interests in one or more Territories as a result of a material breach, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts—The MFAs—Termination” for more details about fair market value calculation. The failure to successfully manage our future growth may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business has grown significantly in recent years, largely due to the opening of new restaurants in existing and new markets within the Territories, and also from an increase in comparable store sales. Our total number of restaurant locations has increased from 1,569 at the date of the Acquisition to 2,121 as of December 31, 2014. However, during 2014, our rate of restaurant openings slowed. This was mainly due to a shift in capital allocation strategy to increase our focus on existing restaurants over continued expansion. Our growth is, to a certain extent, dependent on new restaurant openings and therefore may not be constant from period to period, it may accelerate or decelerate in response to certain factors. There are many obstacles to opening new restaurants, including determining the availability of desirable locations, securing reliable suppliers, hiring and training new personnel and negotiating acceptable lease terms, and, in times of adverse economic conditions, franchisees may be more reluctant to provide the investment required to open new restaurants and may have difficulty obtaining sufficient financing. In addition, our growth in comparable store sales is dependent on continued economic growth in the countries in which we operate as well as our ability to continue to predict and satisfy changing consumer preferences. We plan our capital expenditures on an annual basis, taking into account historical information, regional economic trends, restaurant opening and reimaging plans, site availability and the investment requirements of the MFAs in order to maximize our returns on invested capital. The success of our investment plan may, however, be harmed by factors outside our control, such as changes in macroeconomic conditions, changes in demand and construction difficulties that could jeopardize our investment returns and our future results and financial condition. We depend on oral agreements with third-party suppliers and distributors for the provision of products that are necessary for our operations. Supply chain management is an important element of our success and a crucial factor in optimizing our profitability. We use McDonald’s centralized supply chain management model, which relies on approved third-party suppliers and distributors for goods, and we generally use several suppliers to satisfy our needs for goods. This system encompasses selecting and developing suppliers of core products—beef, chicken, buns, produce, cheese, dairy mixes, beverages and toppings—who are able to comply with McDonald’s high quality standards, and establishing sustainable relationships with these suppliers. McDonald’s standards include cleanliness, product consistency, timeliness, following internationally recognized manufacturing practices, meeting or exceeding all local food regulations and compliance with our Hazard Analysis Critical Control Plan, a systematic approach to food safety that emphasizes protection within the processing facility, rather than detection, through analysis, inspection and follow-up. 16 Table of Contents Our 25 largest suppliers account for approximately 80% of our purchases. Very few of our suppliers have entered into written contracts with us as we only have oral agreements with a vast majority of them. Our supplier approval process is thorough and lengthy in order to ensure compliance with McDonald’s high quality standards. We therefore tend to develop strong relationships with approved suppliers and, given our importance to them, have found that oral agreements with them are generally sufficient to ensure a reliable supply of quality products. While we source our supplies from many approved suppliers in Latin America and the Caribbean, thereby reducing our dependence on any one supplier, the informal nature of the majority of our relationships with suppliers means that we may not be assured of long-term or reliable supplies of products from those suppliers. In addition, certain supplies, such as beef, must often be locally sourced due to restrictions on their importation. In light of these restrictions, as well as the MFAs’ requirement to purchase certain core supplies from approved suppliers, we may not be able to quickly find alternate or additional supplies in the event a supplier is unable to meet our orders. If our suppliers fail to provide us with products in a timely manner due to unanticipated demand, production or distribution problems, financial distress or shortages, if our suppliers decide to terminate their relationship with us or if McDonald’s determines that any product or service offered by an approved supplier is not in compliance with its standards and we are obligated to terminate our relationship with such supplier, we may have difficulty finding appropriate or compliant replacement suppliers. As a result, we may face inventory shortages that could negatively affect our operations. Our financial condition and results of operations depend, to a certain extent, on the financial condition of our franchisees and their ability to fulfill their obligations under their franchise agreements. As of December 31, 2014, 25.7% of our restaurants were franchised. Under our franchise agreements, we receive monthly payments which are, in most cases, the greater of a fixed rent or a certain percentage of the franchisee’s gross sales. Franchisees are independent operators over whom we exercise control through the franchise agreements, by owning or leasing the real estate upon which their restaurants are located and through our operating manual that specifies items such as menu choices, permitted advertising, equipment, food handling procedures, product quality and approved suppliers. Our operating results depend to a certain extent on the restaurant profitability and financial viability of our franchisees. The concurrent failure by a significant number of franchisees to meet their financial obligations to us could jeopardize our ability to meet our obligations. In addition, we are liable for our franchisees’ monthly payment of a continuing franchise fee to McDonald’s, which represents a percentage of those franchised restaurants’ gross sales. To the extent that our franchisees fail to pay this fee in full, we are responsible for any shortfall. As such, the concurrent failure by a significant number of franchisees to pay their continuing franchise fees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not have full operational control over the businesses of our franchisees. We are dependent on franchisees to maintain McDonald’s quality, service and cleanliness standards, and their failure to do so could materially affect the McDonald’s brand and harm our future growth. Although we exercise significant control over franchisees through the franchise agreements, franchisees have some flexibility in their operations, including the ability to set prices for our products in their restaurants, hire employees and select certain service providers. In addition, it is possible that some franchisees may not operate their restaurants in accordance with our quality, service and cleanliness, health or product standards. Although we take corrective measures if franchisees fail to maintain McDonald’s quality, service and cleanliness standards, we may not be able to identify and rectify problems with sufficient speed and, as a result, our image and operating results may be negatively affected. Ownership and leasing of a broad portfolio of real estate exposes us to potential losses and liabilities. As of December 31, 2014, we owned the land for 505 of our 2,121 restaurants and the buildings for all but 12 of our restaurants. The value of these assets could decrease or rental costs could increase due to changes in local demographics, the investment climate and increases in taxes. 17 Table of Contents The majority of our restaurant locations, or those operated by our franchisees, are subject to long-term leases. We may not be able to renew leases on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would have to find new locations to lease or be forced to close the restaurants. If we are able to negotiate a new lease at an existing location, we may be subject to a rent increase. In addition, current restaurant locations may become unattractive due to changes in neighborhood demographics or economic conditions, which may result in reduced sales at these locations. The success of our business is dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy. Market awareness is essential to our continued growth and financial success. Pursuant to the MFAs, we create, develop and coordinate marketing plans and promotional activities throughout the Territories, and franchisees contribute a percentage of their gross sales to our marketing plan. In addition, we are required under the MFAs to spend at least 5% of our sales on advertising and promotional activities. Pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s has the right to review and approve our marketing plans in advance and may request that we cease using the materials or promotional activities at any time if McDonald’s determines that they are detrimental to its brand image. We also participate in global and regional marketing activities undertaken by McDonald’s and pay McDonald’s up to 0.2% of our sales in order to fund such activities. If our advertising programs are not effective, or if our competitors begin spending significantly more on advertising than we do, we may be unable to attract new customers or existing customers may not return to our restaurants and our operating results may be negatively affected. We use non-committed lines of credit to partially finance our working capital needs. We use non-committed lines of credit to partially finance our working capital needs. Given the nature of these lines of credit, they could be withdrawn and no longer be available to us, or their terms, including the interest rate, could change to make the terms no longer acceptable to us. The availability of these lines of credit depends on the level of liquidity in financial markets, which can vary based on events outside of our control, including financial or credit crises. Any inability to draw upon our non-committed lines of credit could have an adverse effect on our working capital, financial condition and results of operations. Covenants and events of default in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2014, we had $801.2 million in total outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $32.5 million in short-term debt, $767.2 million in long-term debt and $1.4 million related to the fair market value of our outstanding derivative instruments. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to negative covenants that restrict some of our activities, including restrictions on: · creating liens; · maintaining certain leverage ratios; · entering into sale and lease-back transactions; and · consolidating, merging or transferring assets. During certain periods of 2014, we were not in compliance with certain quarterly financial ratios specified in our revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. and our 2012 total return equity swap with Goldman Sachs International. We were able to successfully negotiate an amendment to each of the revolving credit facility and the total return equity swap to increase these financial ratios. We are currently in compliance with the revised ratios. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities—Revolving Credit Facility” and “Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts—The 2012 Swap Transaction.” If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in these agreements or another event of default occurs under the agreements, our outstanding indebtedness under the agreements could become immediately due and payable. If our outstanding indebtedness becomes immediately due and payable and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all amounts due, we could be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. 18 Table of Contents Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may affect our growth and results of operations. We have a strong management team with broad experience in product development, supply chain management, operations, finance, marketing and training. Our significant growth places substantial demands on our management team, and our continued growth could increase those demands. In addition, pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s is entitled to approve the appointment of our chief executive officer and chief operating officer. Our ability to manage future growth will depend on the adequacy of our resources and our ability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, the success of our operations depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified regional and restaurant managers and general staff. If we are unable to recruit and retain our employees, or fail to motivate them to provide quality food and service, our image, operations and growth could be adversely affected. The resignation, termination, permanent incapacity or death of our CEO could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Due to Mr. Staton’s unique experience and leadership capabilities, it would be difficult to find a suitable successor for him if he were to cease serving as our CEO and Chairman for any reason. In addition, pursuant to the MFAs, McDonald’s is entitled to approve the appointment of our chief executive officer. If we and McDonald’s have not agreed upon a successor CEO after six months, McDonald’s may designate a temporary CEO in its sole discretion pending our submission of information relating to a further candidate and McDonald’s approval of that candidate. In the event of Mr. Staton’s death or permanent incapacity, McDonald’s has the right to acquire all of our non-public shares during the twelve-month period beginning on the eighteenth-month anniversary of his death or incapacity. A delay in finding a suitable successor CEO could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could harm our results of operations. Our operations depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified restaurant managers and crew. While the turnover rate varies significantly among categories of employees, due to the nature of our business we traditionally experience a high rate of turnover among our crew and we may not be able to replace departing crew with equally qualified or motivated staff. As of December 31, 2014, we had 95,374 employees. Controlling labor costs is critical to our results of operations, and we closely monitor those costs. Some of our employees are paid minimum wages; any increases in minimum wages or changes to labor regulations in the Territories could increase our labor costs. For example, in January 2015, Venezuela announced a 20% increase in the minimum wage. In Argentina, a law enacted in November 2010 requires companies to pay overtime to all employees (except directors and managers) working on weekends. Additionally, a proposed bill in Argentina would require companies to distribute 10% of their profits to employees. In Brazil, during 2012, we decided to transition all of our employees to a fixed hourly schedule. Under the new schedule, employees work between 180 and 220 hours per month, with proportional wages based on the number of hours set forth in the employment contract. In 2013, pursuant to the Pernambuco Labor Court ruling, we completed the transition to a fixed hourly schedule according to the timeframe agreed to in the ruling. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Brazilian Labor Litigation.” These or similar regulations, if adopted, may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Competition for employees could also cause us to pay higher wages. A failure by McDonald’s to protect its intellectual property rights, including its brand image, could harm our results of operations. The profitability of our business depends in part on consumers’ perception of the strength of the McDonald’s brand. Under the terms of the MFAs, we are required to assist McDonald’s with protecting its intellectual property rights in the Territories. Nevertheless, any failure by McDonald’s to protect its proprietary rights in the Territories or elsewhere could harm its brand image, which could affect our competitive position and our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Under the MFAs, we may use, and grant rights to franchisees to use, McDonald’s intellectual property in connection with the development, operation, promotion, marketing and management of our restaurants. McDonald’s has reserved the right to use, or grant licenses to use, its intellectual property in Latin America and the Caribbean for all other purposes, including to sell, promote or license the sale of products using its intellectual property. If we or McDonald’s fail to identify unauthorized filings of McDonald’s trademarks and imitations thereof, and we or McDonald’s do not adequately protect McDonald’s trademarks and copyrights, the infringement of McDonald’s intellectual property rights by others may cause harm to McDonald’s brand image and decrease our sales. Any tax increase or change in tax legislation may adversely affect our results of operations. Since we conduct our business in many countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, we are subject to the application of multiple tax laws and multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate therefore depends on these tax laws and multinational tax conventions, as well as on the effectiveness of our tax planning abilities. Our income tax position and effective tax rate is subject to uncertainty as our income tax position for each year depends on the profitability of Company-operated restaurants and on the profitability of franchised restaurants operated by our franchisees in tax jurisdictions that levy a broad range of income tax rates. It is also dependent on changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules, changes to these rules and tax laws and examinations by various tax authorities. If our actual tax rate differs significantly from our estimated tax rate, this could have a material impact on our financial condition. In addition, any increase in the rates of taxes, such as income taxes, excise taxes, value added taxes, import and export duties, and tariff barriers or enhanced economic protectionism could negatively affect our business. Fiscal measures that target either QSRs or any of our products could also be taken. We cannot assure you that any governmental authority in any country in which we operate will not increase taxes or impose new taxes on our operations or products in the future. Tax assessments in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate may negatively affect our business and results of operations. As part of the ordinary course of business, we are subject to inspections by federal, municipal and state tax authorities in Latin America. These inspections may generate tax assessments which, depending on their results, may have an adverse effect on our financial results. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Litigation and other pressure tactics could expose our business to financial and reputational risk. Given that we conduct our business in many countries, we may be subject to multi-jurisdictional private and governmental lawsuits, including but not limited to lawsuits relating to labor and employment practices, taxes, trade and business practices, franchising, intellectual property, consumer, real property, landlord tenant, environmental, advertising, nutrition and antitrust matters. In the past, QSR chains have been subject to class-action lawsuits claiming that their food products and promotional strategies have contributed to the obesity of some customers. We cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to these types of lawsuits in the future. We may also be the target of pressure tactics such as strikes, boycotts and negative publicity from government officials, suppliers, distributors, employees, unions, special interest groups and customers that may negatively affect our reputation. Information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants. As of the date of this annual report, we have not experienced any information security problems. However, despite our implementation of security measures and controls that provide reasonable assurance regarding our security posture, there remains the risk that our technology systems are vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. If our technology systems were to fail, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Certain Factors Relating to Our Industry The food services industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully. Although competitive conditions in the QSR industry vary in each of the countries in which we conduct our operations, we compete with many well-established restaurant companies on price, brand image, quality, sales promotions, new product development and restaurant locations. Since the restaurant industry has few barriers to entry, our competitors are diverse and range from national and international restaurant chains to individual, local restaurant operators. Our largest competitors include Burger King, Yum! Brands (which operates KFC restaurants and Pizza Hut and Pizza Hut Express restaurants) and Subway. In Brazil, we also compete with Habib’s, a Brazilian QSR chain that focuses on Middle Eastern food, and Bob’s, a primarily Brazilian QSR chain that focuses on hamburger product offerings. We also face strong competition from street vendors of limited product offerings, including hamburgers, hot dogs, pizzas and other local food items. We expect competition to increase as our competitors continue to expand their operations, introduce new products and aggressively market their brands. If any of our competitors offers products that are better priced or more appealing to the tastes of consumers, increases its number of restaurants, obtains more desirable restaurant locations, provides more attractive financial incentives to management personnel, franchisees or hourly employees or has more effective marketing initiatives than we do in any of the markets in which we operate, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in commodity prices or other operating costs could harm our operating results. Food and paper costs represented 34.1% of our total revenues in 2014, and we import approximately 26% of our food and paper raw materials (excluding toys) and 100% of our Happy Meal toys. We rely on, among other commodities, beef, chicken, produce, dairy mixes, beverages and toppings. The cost of food and supplies depends on several factors, including global supply and demand, new product offerings, weather conditions, fluctuations in energy costs and tax incentives, all of which makes us susceptible to substantial price and currency fluctuations and other increased operating costs. Due to the competitive nature of the restaurant industry, we may be unable to pass increased operating costs on to our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Demand for our products may decrease due to changes in consumer preferences or other factors. Our competitive position depends on our continued ability to offer items that have a strong appeal to consumers. If consumer dining preferences change due to dietary inclinations and our consumers begin to seek out alternative restaurant options, our financial results might be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity surrounding our products could also materially affect our business and results of operations. Our success in responding to consumer demands depends in part on our ability to anticipate consumer preferences and introduce new items to address these preferences in a timely fashion. Our business activity may be negatively affected by disruptions, catastrophic events or health pandemics. Unpredictable events beyond our control, including war, terrorist activities, political and social unrest and natural disasters, could disrupt our operations and those of our franchisees, suppliers or customers, have a negative effect on consumer spending or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult to ensure the regular supply of products through our distribution chain. In addition, incidents of health pandemics, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could reduce sales in our restaurants. Widespread illnesses such as avian influenza, the H1N1 influenza virus, e-coli, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (or “mad cow” disease), hepatitis A or salmonella could cause customers to avoid meat or fish products. For example, the H1N1 influenza virus outbreak in Argentina and Mexico in 2009 significantly impacted our sales in those countries. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk of food-borne illness incidents being caused by third-party food suppliers and distributors who operate outside of our control and/or multiple locations being affected rather than a single restaurant. Media reports of health pandemics or food-borne illnesses found in the general public or in any QSR could dramatically affect restaurant sales in one or several countries in which we operate, or could force us to temporarily close an undetermined number of restaurants. As a restaurant company, we depend on consumer confidence in the quality and safety of our food. Any illness or death related to food that we serve could substantially harm our operations. While we maintain 21 Table of Contents extremely high standards for the quality of our food products and dedicate substantial resources to ensure that these standards are met, the spread of these illnesses is often beyond our control and we cannot assure you that new illnesses resistant to any precautions we may take will not develop in the future. In addition, our industry has long been subject to the threat of food tampering by suppliers, employees or customers, such as the addition of foreign objects to the food that we sell. Reports, whether true or not, of injuries caused by food tampering have in the past negatively affected the reputations of QSR chains and could affect us in the future. Instances of food tampering, even those occurring solely at competitor restaurants could, by causing negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect our sales on a local, regional, national or systemwide basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of public health concerns or negative publicity could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Restrictions on promotions and advertisements directed at families with children and regulations regarding the nutritional content of children’s meals may harm McDonald’s brand image and our results of operations. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to make our product offerings appealing to families with children. Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay are considering imposing restrictions on the ways in which we market our products, including proposals restricting our ability to advertise directly to children through the use of toys and to sell toys in conjunction with food. In June 2012, Chile passed a law banning the inclusion of toys in children’s meals with certain nutritional characteristics. This law will be enforced once the Chilean regulatory authority sets the limits for nutritional content of food, which is still pending. The ban in Chile also restricts advertisements to children under the age of 14. A bill currently under discussion proposes to restrict advertisements on television and radio between 6:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M. This bill will affect food products that exceed the limits of nutrient content set by the Chilean authorities. While it is difficult to predict how the Chilean authorities will determine the scope of the law, we currently do not expect that these Chilean regulations will have a material impact on our consolidated results. Similar to law in Chile, Peru passed a law in 2013 restricting our ability to advertise our food to children under the age of 16 and banning the inclusion of toys in children’s meals. However, the law will not be enforced until the Peruvian regulatory authorities issue regulations to determine the scope of the law. Such regulations have not yet been issued. While it is difficult to predict how the Peruvian authorities will enforce or interpret this law, we currently do not expect that the law will have a material impact on our consolidated results. Since 2014, the Mexican Ministry of Health empowered the Federal Commission for Prevention of Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS) to regulate advertising directed at families with children. On April 15, 2014, COFEPRIS issued certain regulations which establish the maximum contents of fat, sodium and sugars that every meal advertised to children on television and in cinemas may contain. In February of 2015, COFEPRIS ordered us to stop advertising Happy Meals on television until we disclosed all the nutritional information for Happy Meals to COFEPRIS. We provided this information to COFEPRIS and in March 2015, an agreement was reached permitting us to advertise Happy Meals that do not contain french fries. In Brazil, the Federal Prosecutor’s Office filed suit in 2009 seeking to enjoin various QSRs, including us, from selling toys. The Lower Federal Court in São Paulo ruled that the lawsuit was without merit. The Prosecutor’s Office filed an appeal against this decision, which will be adjudicated by the Regional Federal Court in São Paulo. As of the date of this annual report, this appeal is still pending and the outcome remains uncertain. In addition, the number of proposed laws seeking to restrict the sale of toys with meals increased significantly in Brazil at the federal, state and municipal levels. In April 2013, a consumer protection agency in Brazil fined us $1.6 million for a 2010 advertising campaign relating to our offering of meals with toys from the motion picture Avatar. We filed a lawsuit seeking to annul the fine. The Lower Civil Court granted an injunction, suspending the fine. The consumer protection agency subsequently appealed and the Appellate Court in São Paulo upheld the decision. The lower court ruled there was no basis for the suit and the consumer protection agency appealed this decision. The Lower Court ruled the case groundless and the consumer protection agency appealed this decision. As of the date of this annual report, this appeal is still pending and the outcome remains uncertain. Although similar fines relating to our current and previous advertising campaigns involving the sale of toys may be possible in the future, as of the date of this annual report, we are unaware of any other such fines. 22 Table of Contents Certain jurisdictions in the United States are also considering curtailing or have curtailed food retailers’ ability to sell meals to children including free toys if these meals do not meet certain nutritional criteria. Similar restrictions, if imposed in the Territories, may have a negative impact on our results of operations. In general, regulatory developments that adversely impact our ability to promote and advertise our business and communicate effectively with our target customers, including restrictions on the use of licensed characters, may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations may affect our business. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and the presence, handling, release and disposal of and exposure to, hazardous substances. These laws and regulations provide for significant fines and penalties for noncompliance. Third parties may also assert personal injury, property damage or other claims against owners or operators of properties associated with release of, or actual or alleged exposure to, hazardous substances at, on or from our properties. Liability from environmental conditions relating to prior, existing or future restaurants or restaurant sites, including franchised restaurant sites, may have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, the adoption of new or more stringent environmental laws or regulations could result in a material environmental liability to us. We may be adversely affected by legal actions, claims or damaging publicity with respect to our business. We could be adversely affected by legal actions and claims brought by consumers or regulatory authorities in relation to the quality of our products and eventual health problems or other consequences caused by our products or by any of their ingredients. We could also be affected by legal actions and claims brought against us for products made in a jurisdiction outside the jurisdictions where we are operating. An array of legal actions, claims or damaging publicity may affect our reputation as well as have a material adverse effect on our revenues and businesses. Similarly, adverse publicity about us or our brand regarding health concerns, legal or regulatory proceedings, perceptions of the QSR category, management or suppliers whether or not deserved, could jeopardize our reputation. In recent years the use of social media as a complaint mechanism has increased substantially. Negative posts or comments about us on any social media forum could harm our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation. Certain Factors Relating to Latin America and the Caribbean Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations. We engage in business activities throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2014, 80.3% of our revenues were derived from Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Venezuela. As a result, our business is and will continue to be subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations, including: · governmental regulations applicable to food services operations; · changes in social, political and economic conditions; · transportation delays; · power, water and other utility shutdowns or shortages; · limitations on foreign investment; · restrictions on currency convertibility and volatility of foreign exchange markets; · inflation; · import-export quotas and restrictions on importation; 23 Table of Contents · changes in local labor conditions; · changes in tax and other laws and regulations; · expropriation and nationalization of our assets in a particular jurisdiction; and · restrictions on repatriation of dividends or profits. Some of the Territories have been subject to social and political instability in the past, and interruptions in operations could occur in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the foregoing factors. For example, we have been and continue to be impacted by developments in Venezuela, including the significant devaluations of the Venezuelan bolívar that occurred in 2010, 2013 and 2014 and the announcements made in February 2015 relating to the foreign currency exchange regime. The SIMADI exchange rate as of April 27, 2015 was 197.66 bolívares per U.S. dollar, up from the initial rate of 170.039 bolívares per U.S. dollar. The political and economic conditions in Venezuela remain unstable, with the economy being considered hyperinflationary under U.S. GAAP since 2010. Going forward, we cannot predict with any certainty whether additional government actions, including in the form of further currency devaluations, continued worsening import authorization controls, foreign exchange, price or profit controls, expropriation or other forms of government takeovers, will occur. The continuation or deterioration of the challenging political and economic conditions in Venezuela could have further adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in governmental policies in the Territories could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Governments throughout Latin America and the Caribbean have exercised, and continue to exercise, significant influence over the economies of their respective countries. Accordingly, the governmental actions, political developments, regulatory and legal changes or administrative practices in the Territories concerning the economy in general and the food services industry in particular could have a significant impact on us. We cannot assure you that changes in the governmental policies of the Territories will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. An economic downturn in Latin America and the Caribbean could have a significant impact on our operating results. The success of our business is dependent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and the availability of discretionary income. Any prolonged economic downturn could result in a decline in discretionary consumer spending. This may reduce the number of consumers who are willing and able to dine in our restaurants, or consumers may make more value-driven and price-sensitive purchasing choices, eschewing our core menu items for our entry level food options. We may also be unable to increase prices of our menu items, which may negatively affect our financial condition. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn may lead to higher interest rates, significant changes in the rate of inflation or an inability to access capital on acceptable terms. Our suppliers could experience cash flow problems, credit defaults or other financial hardships. If our franchisees cannot adequately access the financial resources required to open new restaurants, this could have a material effect on our growth strategy. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation may adversely affect the economies in the countries where we operate, our business and results of operations. Many of the countries in which we operate have experienced, or are currently experiencing, high rates of inflation. In particular, Venezuela has been considered hyperinflationary under U.S. GAAP since 2010. Although inflation rates in many of the other countries in which we operate have been relatively low in the recent past, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. The measures taken by the governments of these countries to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and retarding economic growth. Inflation, measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in many of these countries and to heightened volatility in their securities markets. Periods of higher inflation may also slow the 24 Table of Contents growth rate of local economies that could lead to reduced demand for our core products and decreased sales. Inflation is also likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to fully pass on to our customers, which could adversely affect our operating margins and operating income. Exchange rate fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in the countries in which we operate could negatively affect our results of operations. We are exposed to exchange rate risk in relation to the United States dollar. While substantially all of our income is denominated in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate, our supply chain management involves the importation of various products, and some of our imports, as well as some of our capital expenditures, are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, our royalty payments to McDonald’s are also denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, any decrease in the value of the local currencies of the countries in which we operate as compared to the U.S. dollar will increase our costs. In addition, 61.2% of our outstanding long-term debt was denominated in U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2014. Although we maintain a hedging strategy to attempt to mitigate some of our exchange rate risk, our hedging strategy may not be successful or may not fully offset our losses relating to exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar with respect to the various currencies of the countries in which we operate or in U.S. dollar interest rates could adversely impact on our net income, results of operations and financial condition. Price controls and other similar regulations in certain countries, have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. Certain countries in which we conduct operations have imposed price controls that restrict our ability, and the ability of our franchisees, to adjust the prices of our products. This places downward pressure on the prices at which our products are sold and may limit the growth of our revenue. We cannot assure you that the negative effects of the previously imposed price controls will not continue into the future, or that new controls will not be imposed. Our inability to control the prices of our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the Venezuelan market is subject to price controls which limits our ability to increase prices to offset the impact of continuing high inflation on product, labor and other operating costs. The Venezuelan government issued a regulation establishing a maximum profit margin for companies and maximum prices for certain goods and services. Although we managed to navigate the negative impact of this regulation on our operations during 2014, the existence of such laws and regulations continues to present a risk to our business. These regulations caused a delay in our pricing plan but we still managed to increase prices during fiscal year 2014. We continue to closely monitor developments in this dynamic environment. Moreover, in November 2013, the Venezuelan government through Presidential Decree No. 602 established a transitional protection regime for tenants of property used for commercial, industrial or production activities, which regulates the leasing relations and stipulates that the price of the monthly rent may not exceed an amount equal to 250 bolívares per square meter. On May 23, 2014, this regulation was repealed and replaced with a new decree (decree N° 929). The new legal regime establishes three different methods to determine rent and includes several regulations that limit the contractual freedom of the parties, setting up monthly rental limits and rent review criteria. The new regulation also contains additional prohibitions on commercial rent contracts in any currency other than bolívares, private arbitration for the resolution of conflicts between the parties and foreign companies administering commercial rent. These new regulations resulted in a decrease in revenues from franchised restaurants, higher than the decrease in rental expense related to our Company-operated restaurants. However, on August 8, 2014, after our direct request to the government that the new regulations not apply to our franchisee rental agreements, one of the governmental agencies in charge of implementation decided that such regulation would not apply to our rental agreements with franchisees. Therefore, we are in the process of normalizing our rental fee collections from franchised restaurants pursuant to each respective agreement. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” In May 2014 the Law for the Regulation of Real Estate Lease for Commercial Use was enacted (the “Commercial Leases Law”). In addition, in September 2014, Argentina passed: (i) Law No. 26,991, the “New Regulation on Production and Consumption Relationships Act”, which reformed a 1974 Act (Law on Supply of Goods and Services); and (ii) Law No. 26,992, the “Creation of the Observatory of Prices and Availability of Inputs, Goods and Services Act.” 25 Table of Contents The New Regulation on Production and Consumption Relationships Act empowers the Secretary of Commerce to, among others, establish profit margins and set price levels (setting maximum, minimum and benchmark prices); issue regulations on commerce, intermediation, distribution or production of goods and services; impose the continuance of production, industrialization, commercialization, transport, distribution or rendering of services or impose the production of goods and set subsidies. In addition, pursuant to the Act, the Secretary of Commerce is entitled to impose certain penalties for failure to comply with the Act, including fines and temporary closure of businesses. The Creation of the Observatory of Prices and Availability of Inputs, Goods and Services Act created a technical agency under the Secretary of Commerce, the Observatory of Prices and Availability of Inputs, Goods and Services to control and systematize prices and availability of inputs, goods and services produced, traded or rendered in Argentina. We are currently evaluating the effects these new Argentine laws will have on our business. We could be subject to expropriation or nationalization of our assets and government interference with our business in certain countries in which we operate. We face a risk of expropriation or nationalization of our assets and government interference with our business in several of the countries in which we do business. These risks are particularly acute in Venezuela. The current Venezuelan government has promoted a model of increased state participation in the economy through welfare programs, exchange and price controls and the promotion of state-owned companies. We can provide no assurance that Company-operated or franchised restaurants will not be threatened with expropriation and that our operations will not be transformed into state-owned enterprises. In addition, the Venezuelan government may pass laws, rules or regulations which may directly or indirectly interfere with our ability to operate our business in Venezuela which could result in a material breach of the MFAs, in particular if we are unable to comply with McDonalds’ operations system and standards. A material breach of the MFAs would trigger McDonald’s option to acquire our non-public shares or our interests in Venezuela. See “—Certain Factors Relating to Our Business—McDonald’s has the right to acquire all or portions of our business upon the occurrence of certain events and, in the case of a material breach of the MFAs, may acquire our non-public shares or our interests in one or more Territories at 80% of their fair market value.” We are subject to significant foreign currency exchange controls and depreciation in certain countries in which we operate. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and their respective governments have adopted restrictions on the ability to transfer funds out of the country and convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. This may increase our costs and limit our ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and transfer funds out of certain countries, including for the purchase of dollar-denominated inputs, the payment of dividends or the payment of interest or principal on our outstanding debt. In the event that any of our subsidiaries are unable to transfer funds to us due to currency restrictions, we are responsible for any resulting shortfall. In 2014, our operating subsidiaries in Venezuela represented 5.1% of our total revenues. Exchange rates and controls currently in place in Venezuela are described under “—A. Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates and Exchange Controls—Venezuela.” There are uncertainties regarding the liquidity of the exchange systems and our ability to access U.S. dollars through the mechanisms currently in place in Venezuela. In addition, there are also uncertainties regarding the impact successive foreign exchange controls could have on the Venezuelan economy and the complementary regulations the Venezuelan government could issue in the near future. As a result, there can be no assurance that such measures will not impair the ability of our Venezuelan operating subsidiaries to convert local currency into U.S. dollars, which could result in foreign currency exchange losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In March 2014, we changed the rate applicable for remeasurement purposes in Venezuela to SICAD. Pursuant to this change, we recognized (i) a foreign currency exchange loss of $19.7 million, including a related party receivable denominated in bolívares, and (ii) a write down of certain inventories of $7.6 million within “Other operating expenses, net”, due to the currency exchange rate change impact on their net recoverable value. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Principal Income Statement Line Items—Foreign Currency Translation.” 26 Table of Contents In June 2014, due to our lack of access to the SICAD auction system and our ability to settle transactions at the SICAD II rate, we adopted the SICAD II exchange rate for remeasurement purposes in Venezuela. As a result of the exchange rate change to SICAD II, we recognized (i) a foreign currency exchange loss of $39.0 million, including a related party receivable denominated in bolívares, (ii) a write down of certain inventories of $9.9 million due to the currency exchange rate change impact on their net recoverable value and (iii) an impairment of long-lived assets amounting to $45.2 million within “Other operating expenses, net.” See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Principal Income Statement Line Items—Foreign Currency Translation.” In 2014, our subsidiaries in Argentina represented 15.7% of our total revenues. Since 2001, Argentina has tightened restrictions on capital flows and imposed exchange controls. Exchange control restrictions impact our ability to transfer funds outside of Argentina and may prevent or delay payments that our Argentine subsidiaries are required to make outside Argentina. In particular, regulations issued by the Central Bank of Argentina currently in place do not grant non-debtors, such as any Argentine subsidiary guarantor, access to the foreign exchange market for the purpose of transferring currency outside Argentina in order to make payments under any subsidiary guarantee granted by it. The devaluation of the Argentine peso during 2014 has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses and the national and provincial governments to honor their foreign currency denominated debt, has led to higher inflation levels and, significantly reduced real wages, and has had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand and supplies payable in foreign currency. We are subject to exchange control regulations in Argentina, which may restrict our ability to convert local currencies into foreign currencies and carry out other foreign exchange transactions. For example, since 2001, Argentina has imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments outside Argentina. Since 2011, the Argentine government has implemented certain additional measures that control and restrict the ability of companies and individuals to exchange Argentine pesos for foreign currencies and carry out other foreign exchange transactions. Those measures include, among other things, the requirement of prior approval from the Argentine tax authority to carry out certain foreign currency transactions, which could delay, and eventually restrict, our ability to exchange Argentine pesos for other currencies, such as U.S. dollars. Further, there are certain restrictions that currently apply to local residents for the acquisition of any foreign currency for holding as cash within Argentina. In this regard (i) natural persons are authorized to purchase foreign currency for such purpose, but only in an amount approved by the Argentine tax authority; and (ii) legal persons are not granted access to the foreign exchange market for the acquisition of foreign currency for holding as cash within Argentina. Communication “A” 5237 issued by the Central Bank of Argentina set forth new rules regarding the repatriation of foreign direct investments. Communication “A” 5245 and AFIP General Resolution No. 3421 (2012) require all banks and foreign exchange houses to register every sale and certain purchase of foreign currency, whether by natural or a legal entity, through an online system administered by the Argentine tax authority. Purchases of foreign currency by local residents for the formation of offshore assets require prior authorization from the Argentine tax authority (as explained above, the Argentine tax authority approves the amount of foreign currency for such purposes that local residents who are natural persons are entitled to purchase). If such a transaction fails to clear, the purchaser will not be able to complete the transaction and may make a claim at the AFIP’s offices to obtain authorization to complete the transaction. The Argentine government may tighten exchange controls or transfer restrictions in the future to prevent capital flight, counter a significant depreciation of the Argentine peso or address other unforeseen circumstances. There can be no assurance that the Central Bank of Venezuela, the Central Bank of Argentina or other government agencies will not increase the existing controls or restrictions, establish more severe restrictions on currency exchange, payments to foreign creditors or providers, dividend payments to foreign shareholders or require prior authorization for such purposes. As a result, if we are further prohibited from transferring funds out of Venezuela and/or Argentina, or if we become subject to similar restrictions in other countries in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with or become subject to more onerous government regulations, our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to various federal, state and municipal laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including those related to the food services industry, health and safety standards, importation of goods and services, marketing and promotional activities, nutritional labeling, zoning and land use, environmental standards and consumer protection. We strive to abide by and maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. The imposition of new laws or regulations, including potential trade barriers, may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. For example, Argentine regulations require us to seek permission from the Argentine authorities in order to import goods and to file a statement with the Argentine authorities prior to rendering services to, or receiving services from, foreign residents if the services are valued above a threshold amount. These regulations may prevent or delay the receipt of goods or services that we require for our operations, or increase the costs associated with obtaining those goods and services, and therefore have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, Venezuela recently enacted a Foreign Investments Law that increases requirements and limitations for the transfer of dividends and repatriation of foreign investments. Regulations governing the food services industry have become more restrictive. We cannot assure you that new and stricter standards will not be adopted or become applicable to us, or that stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not occur. Any of these events may require us to spend additional funds to gain compliance with the new rules, if possible, and therefore increase our cost of operation. Certain Factors Relating to Our Class A Shares Mr. Staton, our Chairman and CEO, controls all matters submitted to a shareholder vote, which will limit your ability to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our class A shares. Mr. Staton, our Chairman and CEO, owns or controls common stock representing 39.9% and 76.2%, respectively, of our economic and voting interests. As a result, Mr. Staton is and will be able to strongly influence or effectively control the election of our directors, determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval and shape our corporate and management policies. The MFAs’ requirement that Mr. Staton at all times hold at least 51% of our voting interests likely will have the effect of preventing a change in control of us and discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership may make it difficult for shareholders to replace management and may adversely affect the trading price for our class A shares because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling shareholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other shareholders with interests different from those of Mr. Staton and the trading price of our class A shares could be adversely affected. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions―A. Major Shareholders” for a more detailed description of our share ownership. Furthermore, the MFAs contemplate instances where McDonald’s could be entitled to purchase the shares of Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc. held by Mr. Staton. However, our publicly-held class A shares will not be similarly subject to acquisition by McDonald’s. Sales of substantial amounts of our class A shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our class A shares to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our class A shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our Class A shares to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. Under our articles of association, we are authorized to issue up to 420,000,000 class A shares, of which 130,216,043 class A shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2014. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our shares or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our class A shares. 28 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirement that a majority of an issuer’s directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to holders of our Class A shares. Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of their board members be independent, and to have independent director oversight of executive compensation, nomination of directors and corporate governance matters. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. British Virgin Islands law, the law of our country of incorporation, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors or the implementation of a nominating and corporate governance committee, and our board may thus not include, or include fewer, independent directors than would be required if we were subject to these NYSE requirements. Since a majority of our board of directors may not consist of independent directors as long as we rely on the foreign private issuer exemption to these NYSE requirements, our board’s approach may, therefore, be different from that of a board with a majority of independent directors, and as a result, the management oversight of our Company may be more limited than if we were subject to these NYSE requirements. Certain Risks Relating to Investing in a British Virgin Islands Company We are a British Virgin Islands company and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our executive officers and directors in the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Most of our assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and most of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, you may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an action in a British Virgin Islands court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. As there is no treaty in force on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and the British Virgin Islands, courts in the British Virgin Islands will not automatically recognize and enforce a final judgment rendered by a U.S. court. Any final and conclusive monetary judgment obtained against us in U.S. courts, for a definite sum, may be treated by the courts of the British Virgin Islands as a cause of action in itself so that no retrial of the issue would be necessary, provided that in respect of the U.S. judgment: · the U.S. court issuing the judgment had jurisdiction in the matter and we either submitted to such jurisdiction or were resident or carrying on business within such jurisdiction and were duly served with process; · the judgment given by the U.S. court was not in respect of penalties, taxes, fines or similar fiscal or revenue obligations of ours; · in obtaining judgment there was no fraud on the part of the person in whose favor judgment was given or on the part of the court; · recognition or enforcement of the judgment in the British Virgin Islands would not be contrary to public policy; and · the proceedings pursuant to which judgment were obtained were not contrary to public policy. Under our articles of association, we indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. 29 Table of Contents You may have more difficulty protecting your interests than you would as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. Our affairs are governed by the provisions of our memorandum of association and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the provisions of applicable British Virgin Islands law. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our directors and officers under the British Virgin Islands law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, the British Virgin Islands regulations governing the securities of British Virgin Islands companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and the British Virgin Islands law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters may not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Therefore, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in connection with actions taken by our directors and officers or our principal shareholders than you would as a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in the United States. You may not be able to participate in future equity offerings, and you may not receive any value for rights that we may grant. Under our memorandum and articles of association, existing shareholders are entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases. However, our articles of association also provide that such preemptive subscription rights do not apply to certain issuances of securities by us, including (i) pursuant to any employee compensation plans; (ii) as consideration for (a) any merger, consolidation or purchase of assets or (b) recapitalization or reorganization; (iii) in connection with a pro rata division of shares or dividend in specie or distribution; or (iv) in a bona fide public offering that has been registered with the SEC. 