D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to continue to innovate and provide attractive products and services to attract and retain users, the effectiveness of our cloud-based security technology may be adversely affected and we may lose users and customers for our revenue generating services. Our success depends on our ability to continue to provide attractive products and services that enable users to have a secure and high-quality Internet experience. In order to attract and retain users and compete against our competitors, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development to enhance our Internet security technology, improve our existing products and services, introduce additional high-quality 6 Table of Contents products and services and enhance user experience. We may not be able to expand our user base if our products and services do not meet the needs of our users or are not effectively or timely brought to market. If we are unable to anticipate user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, our user base may not increase at the expected rate, if at all, or even decrease. The effectiveness of our cloud-based security technology increases with the size of our user cloud. If we fail to innovate and provide attractive products and services to attract and retain users, the effectiveness of our cloud-based security technology may be adversely affected. Users may not choose to use our Internet security products and Internet value-added services if our technology is ineffective, and customers may no longer choose our platform to deliver online advertising if our user base does not grow. As Internet security technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer Internet security products and services that are, or are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than our own. This may force us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If we fail to keep up with rapid changes in technologies and Internet-enabled devices, our business may be adversely affected. The Internet industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies, adapt our services to evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our products and services. Our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. In addition, changes in Internet-enabled devices resulting from technological development may also adversely affect our business. For example, the number of people accessing the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones and other hand-held devices, has increased in recent years. In 2009, we began to offer mobile security products and services in response to this market trend. In September 2011, we launched a full suite of mobile browsers supporting iPads and Android based tablets and smart phones. However, if we are slow to develop products and services that are compatible with mobile devices, or if the products and services we develop are not widely accepted and used by mobile device users, we may not be able to capture a significant share of this increasingly important market. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products, services or infrastructure. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes to remain competitive, our future success may be adversely affected. If we fail to leverage our user base to increase our revenues, our results of operations and growth prospects could be harmed. We generate revenues primarily through online advertising and Internet value-added services, such as the offering of web games, remote technical support and other Internet value-added services. The attractiveness of our online advertising and Internet value-added services largely depends on our ability to maintain and expand our user base, which in turn requires us to continuously invest significant resources in providing Internet and mobile security products and services that retain and attract users. We plan to make significant investments in developing and offering Internet products and services. However, we cannot assure you that our investments will maintain or expand our user base or that our user base will successfully drive our revenue growth. If we fail to leverage our user base to promote web games or other Internet value-added services or to attract paying advertising customers, our business, results of operations and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. We generate a substantial and fast-growing portion of our revenues from online advertising. If we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online advertising services, our business, results of operations and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. In the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, online advertising services accounted for 43.1%, 67.3% and 73.3% of our total revenues, respectively. Our online advertising customers include, among others, third-party websites who pay us for displaying their links on our 360 Personal Start-up Page and other platform products, and search engines who pay us fees for generating search queries from our 360 browsers and 360 Personal Start-up Page. Our online advertising customers may not continue to do business with us if their investments do not generate sales leads and ultimately customers. If we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online advertising services, our business, results of operations and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. Legal proceedings or allegations of impropriety against us or our management could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. 7 Table of Contents From time to time, we have been, and may be in the future, subject to lawsuits or allegations brought by our competitors, individuals or other entities against us or our management, including claims of unfair, unethical, fraudulent or otherwise inappropriate business practices. Certain key members of our management team have also been in the past alleged to have committed wrongdoings in their current and/or prior business affiliations. Any such lawsuit or allegation, with or without merit, or any perceived unfair, unethical, fraudulent or inappropriate business practice by us or perceived wrong doing by any key member of our management team could harm our reputation and user base and distract our management from day-to-day operations of our company. We are currently involved in several lawsuits in PRC courts where our competitors instituted proceedings or asserted counterclaims against us or we instituted proceedings or asserted counterclaims against our competitors relating to anti-trust issues, unfair competition and defamation. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” We cannot assure you that we or key members of our management team will not be subject to lawsuits or allegations of a similar nature in the future. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that an adverse liability resulting from such litigation is probable, we record a related contingent liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we did not record any contingent liabilities relating to pending litigation. However, when we record or revise our estimates of contingent liabilities in the future, the amount of our estimates may be inaccurate due to the inherent uncertainties relating to litigation. In addition, the outcomes of actions we institute against our competitors may not be successful or favorable to us. These litigations and allegations may also generate negative publicity that significantly harms our reputation, which may materially and adversely affect our user base and the number of our paying customers. In addition to the related cost, managing and defending litigation and related indemnity obligations can significantly divert management’s and the board of directors’ attention from operating our business. We may also need to pay damages or settle the litigation with a substantial amount of cash. All of these could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Our dependence on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our online advertising revenues may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our online advertising revenues. Revenues from our top five online advertising customers comprised 27.8%, 35.1% and 27.9% of our total revenues in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We enter into non-exclusive, short-term agreements with our online advertising customers which are typically renewed on a quarterly or annual basis. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: · reduced, delayed or cancelled services required by our online advertising customers; · our online advertising customers’ failure to pay for our services; or · loss of one or more of our significant online advertising customers and any failure to identify and acquire additional or replacement customers. If we lose the business of one or more of our top online advertising customers, our business, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition and may suffer from a loss of users and customers as a result. We face significant competition from Internet security product and service providers and PRC-based Internet companies. The competitive standing of an Internet security market player in China largely depends on the technological reputation of its brand, the size of its user base, its technological expertise, the effectiveness of its security software as well as its business model. We compete in the Internet security market with established anti-virus companies such as Beijing Kingsoft Security Software Co., Ltd., and Beijing Rising Information Technology Co., Ltd. We also compete with PRC-based Internet companies that, like us, build Internet platforms to offer value-added services and online advertising services. Our primary competitor in this market is Tencent Holdings Limited, the largest Internet company in China in terms of revenue. In December 2011, Tencent’s QQ instant message software, had an active user penetration rate in China of 91.5%, while our security products had an active user penetration rate in China of 92.1%, according to iResearch. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Competition” for description of our principal competitors in each of our product and services categories. Some of our competitors have 8 Table of Contents significantly greater financial resources than we do. They also have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than we do. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more intensely for users and customers, investing more heavily in research and development and making strategic acquisitions. If any of our competitors provides better Internet security products and services than we do, our user base and user traffic could decline significantly. Any such decline could weaken our brand, result in losing users and customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, in an increasingly competitive environment, our competitors may adopt business practices or take other actions that could be harmful to us, and we may have difficulties in obtaining remedies against such actions. Any increase in competition could erode our market share, reduce our user base and customer base, and increase our marketing and product development expenditures, which could adversely materially affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our competitors may cause their products to be incompatible with ours, which may reduce our market share. As two of the largest providers of user-end software in China, we and Tencent may from time to time compete for users. On November 3, 2010, Tencent issued a letter to users of Tencent QQ, Tencent’s popular instant message software, announcing its decision to disable the widely used Tencent QQ on computers that had installed our security products, effectively requiring users to either stop using Tencent QQ or uninstall our Internet security products. As a result, a significant number of users stopped using Tencent QQ, or our Internet security products, or both. Due to the large number of Internet users that were affected, this incident was extensively reported in the media and attracted government scrutiny. On November 21, 2010, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, ordered that Tencent and we end the dispute, apologize to affected users and ensure the compatibility of products concerned. We lost some users in the first several days of this dispute before our user base quickly returned to its prior level. Since then, the MIIT has increased its regulation of competition in the Internet industry, including “Certain Provisions on the Regulation of Internet Information Service,” effective March 2012, which prevents software companies that cause product incompatibility from competing in market. However, our competitors may continue to make their products incompatible with ours, which may reduce our market share, negatively affect our brand and reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our expansion into new Internet businesses and overseas markets is not successful, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we enter into new Internet businesses from time to time by leveraging our expansive user base to generate additional revenue streams. We may also expand into overseas markets through investment or strategic alliances with local market participants. Expansion into new businesses and new markets may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter. For each new business or markets we enter into, we face competition from existing leading providers in that business or market. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against the existing leading players in the new businesses or markets, we may not be able to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base, recover costs incurred for marketing new businesses or developing new markets, or make a profit from these businesses or markets, and our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong brand and reputation, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand or reputation or if there is negative publicity against us, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that our “360” brand and our reputation have contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the “360” brand and our reputation are critical to increasing our number of users and customers. As our market becomes increasingly competitive, our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation will depend largely on our ability to remain as a leading provider of Internet and mobile security products and services in China, which may become more expensive and challenging. Historically, we have developed our user base primarily by word-of-mouth and incurred limited brand promotion expenses. We began enhancing marketing and brand promotion efforts in early 2010. However, we cannot assure you that our marketing and brand promotion activities in the future will achieve the expected 9 Table of Contents brand promotion effect. If we fail to maintain and further promote the “360” brand or our reputation, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, historically there has been negative publicity about our company, our products and services and certain key members of our management team. Since 2011, Citron Research and certain other short-selling organizations and individuals have issued a series of reports which portrayed our business and financial position in a negative light. Although we have vigorously rebutted the key points of these reports, they still generated significant negative publicity for our company. We cannot assure you that there will not be additional negative publicity of the similar nature in the future. Any such negative publicity, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brand image and reputation and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and the trading price of our ADSs. The success of our Internet value-added services depends on our ability to accommodate user demand and source suitable third-party products and services. We have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenues from our Internet value-added services, such as offering web games developed by third parties. The success of our Internet value-added services depends on our ability to respond adequately and timely to accommodate our users’ demand for such value-added services and source suitable third-party products and services on reasonable terms. If we are unable to continue to offer a variety of suitable value-added services that attract users and generate revenue, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. If our Internet security products and services fail to detect malware or malicious websites or otherwise do not work properly, we may experience negative publicity, damage to our reputation, legal liability, declined revenues and increased expenses. Our users rely on our Internet security products and services for safe access to the Internet. New malware and malicious websites are continuously being created and modified, and the detection technologies underlying our products and services may not detect all forms of malware or malicious websites that our users are exposed to. Additionally, our users may experience errors, failures, or bugs in our products that are undetected by our pre-launch testing, especially when our products and services are first introduced or when new updates are first released. Failure to detect malware or malicious websites or defects in our products may result in security breaches, disruption or damage to our users’ computers or networks and theft of confidential information or other negative consequences. Any such event may damage our brand reputation, decrease our user and customer base, require large research and development and marketing expenditures to remedy and may otherwise significantly affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, our Internet security products and services may falsely identify programs or websites as malicious or otherwise undesirable. Parties whose programs are incorrectly blocked by our products or services, or whose websites are incorrectly identified as unsafe or malicious, may seek redress against us for labeling them as malicious and interfering with their businesses. In addition, falsely identifying programs or websites as malicious may adversely affect our users’ confidence and trust in our products and decrease our user base. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively. We have significantly expanded our operations in recent years. Since our inception in 2005, we have expanded our product offering into a comprehensive suite of Internet and mobile security products and services and have rapidly established a leading position in the Chinese Internet and mobile security service market. We expect this expansion to continue as we grow our user and customer base and explore new opportunities. To manage the further expansion of our business and growth of our operations and personnel, we need to continuously improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train, manage and maintain good relations with our growing employee base. In addition, we must maintain and expand our relationships with other websites, Internet companies and other third parties. Our current and future personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our expanding operations. If we fail to manage our expansion effectively, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history under our current business model upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the 10 Table of Contents risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the Internet security industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · maintain our leading position in the Internet security market in China; · continue to offer new and innovative products and services to attract and retain a larger user base; · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to enhance user and customer loyalty; · respond to competitive market conditions; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · upgrade our technology and infrastructure to support increased traffic and expanded offerings of products and services. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Interruption or failure of our own information technology and communications systems or those of third-party service providers we rely upon could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services and protect the privacy of our users, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our ability to provide our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could affect the performance and reliability of our Internet security products and services and directly impact our users. Service interruptions may damage our brand and reduce our user base if our products and services are perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, wars, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, undetected errors or “bugs” in our software, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites and servers through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Additionally, the occurrence of a closure of an Internet data center by any of our third-party providers without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. The steps we take to improve the reliability of our systems will increase our cost and reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. Furthermore, our systems may not function properly as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, resulting in unauthorized access to our users’ data and information. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures affecting our products and services or are unable to prevent unauthorized access to our users’ data, our reputation and brand could be severely harmed. Our strategy of acquiring and investing in complementary businesses, assets and technologies may fail. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and intend to continue to selectively acquire and invest in, businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business. Acquisitions and investments involve uncertainties and risks, including: · potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; 11 Table of Contents · costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; · costs and difficulties of integrating acquired technologies into our existing products and services; and · diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of our ADSs and the underlying Class A ordinary shares. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Such acquisitions may also generate significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Our success depends on the continuing and collaborative efforts of our management team and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our management team, in particular Mr. Hongyi Zhou, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Mr. Xiangdong Qi, our director and president. If one or more of our executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our executives or key personnel, or attract and retain experienced executives or key personnel in the future. If any of our executives or other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, distributors, know-how and key personnel. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality provisions. If any disputes arise between any of our executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements may be enforced. We rely on highly skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain or motivate them or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depend on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the Internet industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in the Internet industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property or brands, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights and brands. We have registered our “Qihoo” brand and our “360” logo with relevant government authorities. The protection of intellectual property rights and brands in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology or unauthorized use of our brands. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without compensating us. Moreover, unauthorized use of our technology could enable our competitors to offer products and services that are comparable to or better than ours, which could harm our business and competitive position. From time to time, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights and brands through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 12 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from promoting our products and services. From time to time, we may receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. Such claims may be based on our use of trademarks, logos, technologies or other intellectual properties. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract our management from day-to-day operations. If we fail to successfully defend such claims, we could be required to make unavailable or redesign our products and services, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our users. Any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, if we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. Further, we license and use technologies from third parties in our products and services. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China and the safety of our network and infrastructure. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. A more sophisticated Internet infrastructure may not be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect our network and infrastructure to be targets of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and services, misappropriate proprietary information or harm our reputation. Because the techniques used by hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, brand reputation and user base, and our users and customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses arising from security breaches. Our business could be subject to significant disruption and our results of operations may be affected. If we fail to establish an effective system of internal control, we may be unable to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require a public company to include a management report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2012. Prior to our initial public offering in April 2011, we have been a private company and have had limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. We and our independent registered public accounting firm, in connection with the preparation and audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, identified one material weakness and several control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness and control deficiencies identified were identical to those identified during the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 13 Table of Contents The material weakness identified primarily related to lack of sufficient accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge of U.S. GAAP. Neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm are required to undertake a comprehensive assessment of our internal control for purposes of identifying and reporting material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2011. In light of the material weakness and other control deficiencies that were identified as a result of the limited procedures performed, we believe it is possible that, had we performed a formal assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, additional control deficiencies may have been identified. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy the identified weakness and deficiencies. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address this material weakness and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot conclude that they have been fully remedied. Our failure to address the material weakness and other control deficiencies or our failure to discover and address any other control deficiencies could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could significantly hinder our ability to prevent fraud. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the (PCAOB), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. We have incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional future costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange require significantly heightened corporate governance practices for public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and made some of our corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Also, we have incurred additional costs associated with satisfying our public company reporting requirements. We are evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional future costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. Furthermore, our future capital needs may require us to sell additional equity or debt securities that may dilute our shareholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. To grow our business and remain competitive, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain 14 Table of Contents additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; · general market conditions for capital raising activities by companies offering Internet and mobile security products and services; and · economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could dilute our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the downturn in the global or Chinese economy. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008 and 2009. A variety of factors, including the current European sovereign debt crisis and concerns about the viability of the European Union and the Euro, could cause further disruptions to the global economy. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. China’s economy has also faced challenges. Since we derive substantially all of our revenues from China, our business and prospects may be affected by economic conditions in China. Moreover, a slowdown in the global or Chinese economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may have a material and adverse impact on financings available to us. The weakness in the economy could erode investors’ confidence, which constitutes the basis of the equity markets. The recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis, the European debt crisis and slowdown of the Chinese economy may impact our business in the long term. There is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the global economic downturn and the slowdown of the Chinese economy. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure In order to comply with PRC laws and regulations limiting foreign ownership of Internet businesses, we conduct our Internet businesses through our consolidated affiliated entities in China by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in Internet businesses. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations Related to Our Business —Telecommunications Regulations.” Accordingly, we conduct our business activities primarily through two of our consolidated variable interest entities, or VIEs, namely Beijing Qihu Technology Company Limited, or Beijing Qihu, and Shanghai Qitai Network Technology Company Limited, or Shanghai Qitai. See “Item 4. Information on the Company ¾ C. Organizational Structure.” We bear the economic risks and derive the economic benefits of Beijing Qihu and Shanghai Qitai as their primary beneficiary through contractual arrangements with them and their respective registered shareholders. We also entered into similar contractual arrangements with eight other VIEs that do not have significant business operations as of the date of this annual report. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions ¾ B. Related Party Transactions ¾Contractual Arrangements among Qizhi Software, the VIEs and the Respective Shareholders of the VIEs.” Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, the PRC government may not agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government 15 Table of Contents determines that our ownership structure, our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders or our businesses are in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, it may revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our websites, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their shareholders for the operation of our Internet business in China. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our VIEs as direct ownership in these entities. If our VIEs or their respective shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may incur substantial costs and resources to enforce these arrangements, and rely on legal remedies available under applicable PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages. In particular, if shareholders of a VIE refuse to transfer their equity interests in such VIEs to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may need to initiate legal actions to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. If the applicable PRC authorities invalidate our contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, or any of our VIEs or their shareholders terminate the contractual arrangements or fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, our Internet and online advertising businesses in China would be materially disrupted, and the value of our ordinary shares would decrease substantially. Furthermore, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration and the relevant foreign investment restrictions remain effective, we would not be able to continue our Internet business. In addition, if any of our VIEs or all or part of its assets become subject to court injunctions or asset freezes or liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our businesses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our VIEs undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets. The occurrence of any of these events may hinder our ability to operate our Internet business, which could in turn materially harm our business and our ability to generate revenues and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. Perfection of the pledges in our equity pledge agreements with our VIEs and their registered shareholders may be adversely affected due to failure to register these equity pledge agreements. Under our equity pledge agreements with our VIEs and their registered shareholders, these registered shareholders have pledged all of their respective equity interests in the VIEs to us. The pledges under the equity pledge agreements were duly created by recording the pledges on the VIEs’ registers of shareholders in accordance with the then effective PRC Security Law and the Contract Law. The purpose of such pledges is to secure the performance of the VIEs’ obligations under the various VIE agreements, including the business operation agreements and technology development agreements. Under the then effective PRC laws and regulations, the pledge of equity in a limited liability company became effective upon recording of the pledge on the company’s register of members. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective on October 1, 2007, a pledge is not deemed to be validly created without registration with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce. Six of our VIEs have completed the pledge registration. We are applying to register and update the equity pledges by the shareholders of our four other VIEs with the relevant offices of the administration for industry and commerce. Although under PRC laws and regulations, the administration for industry and commerce should register a pledge immediately upon receiving a complete application, the registration process could take longer in practice. If the equity pledges are not successfully registered, they would not be deemed as validly created security interests under the PRC Property Rights Law. If our VIEs breached their obligations under the agreements with us, there is a risk that we may not be able to successfully enforce the pledges if the equity pledge agreements have not been registered with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. The shareholders of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents The registered shareholders of our VIEs are our directors, officers or employees. Conflicts of interest may arise between these shareholders’ duties to us and our VIEs. If such conflicts arise, these shareholders may not act in our best interests and such conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. In addition, these shareholders may breach or cause our VIEs to breach or refuse to renew their existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over them and to receive economic benefits from them. The laws of the Cayman Islands provide that directors of a company owe a fiduciary duty to the company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If certain shareholders of our VIEs do not comply with their fiduciary duties to us as our designated directors, or if we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and such shareholders or any future beneficial owners of our VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings to remedy the situation, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and we could be required to pay additional taxes, which could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with VIEs are not arm’s length transactions. If this were to occur, the tax authorities could adjust our VIEs’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our VIEs, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. The PRC tax authorities could also impose late payment fees and other penalties on our VIEs for under-paid taxes. In addition, any challenge by the PRC tax authorities may limit the ability of our VIEs to receive any preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our VIEs’ tax liabilities increase or if our VIEs are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Services and Products We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in regulation of Internet and value-added telecommunications service companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the Internet industry. These Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and still evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, it may be difficult in certain circumstances to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be violations of applicable laws and regulations. The following illustrates some of the risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the Internet industry: · We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including online information services. · There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet business in China, including licensing practices that continue to evolve. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we may not be able to obtain or renew certain permits or licenses. This may significantly disrupt our business, require us to compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement. · New laws and regulations may be promulgated that will regulate Internet activities, including online advertising and online payment. Other aspects of our online operations may be regulated in the future. If these new laws and regulations are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our online operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. As a result of the complexity, uncertainties and constant changes in regulation in the Internet and value-added telecommunications companies, our business activities and growth may be adversely affected if we do not respond to the changes in a timely manner or are found to be in violation of the applicable laws, 17 Table of Contents regulations and policies as a result of a different position from ours taken by the competent authority in the interpretation of such applicable laws, regulations and policies. If we fail to obtain or maintain all required licenses, permits and approvals or if we are required to take actions that are time-consuming or costly, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are required to obtain applicable licenses, permits and approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to conduct our business. Over the last several years, various governmental authorities in the PRC have issued regulations regulating specific aspects of Internet content and services. Some of this legislation requires operators to obtain licenses, permits or approvals that were previously not required. The government authorities may continue to pass new rules regulating the Internet sector. They may require us to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals so that we can continue to operate our existing businesses or otherwise prohibit our operation of the types of businesses to which the new requirements apply. In addition, new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations may increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering services and products over the Internet and through mobile operators and expose us to potential penalties and fines. These regulations may also restrict our ability to expand our customer and user base or to provide services in additional geographic areas. Our security software must be examined and approved by the PRC Ministry of Public Security, or the MPS, before it may be made available to users. We believe that we have obtained the applicable permits for offering 360 Safe Guard and 360 Anti-Virus for download. However, as the upgrades of our software become more frequent and such examination and approval by the MPS may be time consuming, we may not be able to obtain such permits for all upgrades in a timely manner, which may subject us to various penalties and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we have an online lottery business and also provide promotion services for a third party’s online lottery business on our platform. Under the Tentative Administrative Measures on Internet Lottery Sale promulgated by the PRC Ministry of Finance on September 26, 2010, a license is required for conducting online lottery business. Moreover, on January 18, 2012, the Implementation Rules of the Lottery Administration Regulations, or the Lottery Implementation Rules, were jointly issued by the PRC Ministry of Finance, the Civil Affairs Bureau and the State General Administration of Sport, became effective as of March 1, 2012 and explicitly stipulate that the welfare lotteries and sports lotteries sold without the Ministry of Finance’s approval and the Lottery Issuing Authority’s and Lottery Sales Office’s commission may be categorized as illegal lotteries. Therefore, in addition to Ministry of Finance’s approval, the Lottery Implementation Rules further request the lottery sales agency to obtain proper authorization from the Lottery Issuing Authority and the Lottery Sales Office to conduct lottery business. As these measures and rules are newly released, our online lottery business partner currently does not hold such license. Without such a license, an online lottery business operated by such third party may be suspended by relevant governmental authorities. We have requested our online lottery business partner to apply for such license as soon as the application procedures are available. We also plan to apply for such license for ourselves as a provider of platform for such lottery business if required under newly issued rules or regulations or by relevant government authorities. If our online lottery business partner or we are subject to regulatory penalties for lack of such license, our reputation may be harmed and our business may be adversely affected. If any of our web games business activities is deemed to be in violation of law, we may have to cease or modify our web game operations, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. All web games currently offered by our platform are licensed by, and operated with, third-party game developers. Although we have obtained licenses which we believe are sufficient for our web game offerings, the MIIT or other competent government authorities may interpret existing or promulgate and implement new laws, regulations or policies that may require us to cease or modify our web games business in order to avoid violation of any PRC laws or regulations. Any such modification to our web games business may result in disruption of our business, diversion of management attention and the incurrence of substantial costs. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations Relating to Our Business—Web Games and Virtual Currency.” In addition, we have requested our web game business partners to obtain and maintain all necessary licenses. However, we cannot assure you that all of our business partners have obtained or updated all necessary licenses, permits or registrations with relevant governmental authorities. If any of such business partners fails to do so, we may not continue to operate the affected web games, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and subject us to liability for information displayed on or linked to our websites. The MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws and regulations prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider to block any Internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. Furthermore, we are required to report any suspicious content to relevant governmental authorities, and to undergo computer security inspections. If we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, our websites may be shut down and our business and business licenses may be revoked. Although we attempt to monitor the content posted on our websites or transmitted through our services, we are not able to control or restrict the content generated or linked by the users to other Internet content providers. If the PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites. If third-party websites linked to or accessible through our websites operate unlawful activities, PRC regulatory authorities may require us to report such unlawful activities to competent authorities and to remove the links to such websites, or they may suspend or shut down the operation of such websites. PRC regulatory authorities may also temporarily block access to certain websites for a period of time for reasons beyond our control. Any of these actions may reduce our user traffic and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could negatively impact China’s overall economic growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects depend significantly on economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past few decades, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and economic sectors. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Between late 2003 and 2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, which slowed the growth of credit. In 2008 and 2009, however, in response to the global financial crisis, the PRC government loosened such requirements. Any actions and policies adopted by the PRC government could negatively impact the Chinese economy, which could materially adversely affect our business. We may rely on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries in China to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. As an offshore holding company, we may rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders or to service our debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, the PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. 19 Table of Contents If our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC laws and regulations have established more complex procedures for certain acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Further to the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, the Anti-monopoly Law of the PRC, the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by MOFCOM or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, was issued in August 2011, which established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities in China by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change of control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC enterprise, or that the approval from MOFCOM be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire affiliated domestic companies. PRC laws and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to merger control review or security review. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective from September 1, 2011, which implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, further provide that, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review by MOFCOM, the principle of substance over form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. Further, if the business of any target company that we plan to acquire falls into the scope of security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company either by equity or asset acquisition, capital contribution or through any contractual arrangement. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other companies operating in our industry. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulations to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investments in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering or other financing activities to make loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds we received from the 2011 initial public offering we completed in April 2011 or in other future financing activities, as an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries or finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of shareholder’s loans or capital contributions. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the amount of our investments in such subsidiaries, and shall be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries shall be approved by the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In addition, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning Administration Improvement of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, on August 29, 2008. Under Circular 142, registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC. In 20 Table of Contents addition, foreign-invested companies may not change how they use such capital without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case use such capital to repay RMB loans if they have not used the proceeds of such loans. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 19, 2010, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Circular 142 and Circular 59 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to our PRC subsidiaries and convert the net proceeds into RMB, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB may materially adversely affect your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate. Exchange rates are affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over three years. From July 2008 until June 2010, however, the RMB traded stably within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against foreign currencies. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government would reform the RMB exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. We cannot predict how this new policy will impact the RMB exchange rate. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in the RMB. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar may materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the amount of and any dividends we may pay on our ADSs in U.S. dollars. In addition, any fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company primarily relies on dividend payments from our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary in China, Qizhi Software, to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. See “ Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions ¾ B. Related Party Transactions.” Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, Qizhi Software may pay dividends in foreign currency to us without pre-approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with competent government authorities is required where the Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. With the prior approval from SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiary may be used to pay off debt they owe to entities outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. The PRC government may at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could materially adversely affect our business. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. 21 Table of Contents In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, and forms of foreign investment (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint ventures) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and amended frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement often raise uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violations of these policies and rules until the violations have occurred. Furthermore, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. We cannot predict future developments in the PRC legal system. We may be required to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our operations, which we may not be able to obtain. Our inability to obtain such permits or authorizations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore SPVs by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, effective on November 1, 2005. These regulations require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under these foreign exchange regulations, PRC residents who make or have previously made prior to the implementation of these foreign exchange regulations, direct or indirect investments in special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an SPV is required to update the previously filed registration with the local branch of SAFE to reflect any material change. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their registration with the local branch of SAFE. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required registration or update the previously filed registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their SPV parent, and the SPV may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various foreign exchange registration requirements described above could result in liabilities for such PRC subsidiaries under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Furthermore, the responsible persons and other persons in such PRC subsidiaries who are held directly liable for the violations may be subject to administrative sanctions. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. We have notified holders of ordinary shares of our company whom we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch and update their registrations as required under the SAFE regulations described above. We are aware that Mr. Hongyi Zhou, our chairman and chief executive officer and principal shareholder and Mr. Xiangdong Qi, our director, president and principal shareholder, both of whom are PRC residents, have registered with the relevant local SAFE branch. We, however, cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will file all applicable registrations or update previously filed registrations as required by these SAFE regulations. If SAFE determines that any of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents fails to comply with the above SAFE rules, our PRC subsidiaries could be subject to fines and legal penalties, and SAFE could restrict our cross-border investment activities and our foreign exchange activities, including restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain loans denominated in foreign currencies from, our company, or prevent us from making distributions or paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with the registration requirements for employee share option plans may subject our PRC equity incentive plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In March 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application 22 Table of Contents Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or Circular 78, which has been replaced by a circular 7 issued by SAFE on February 15, 2012, or Circular 7. Under Circular 7, PRC residents who participate in an employee stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local office and complete certain other procedures. A PRC agent, which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, is required to retain a financial institution with stock brokerage qualification at the listing place or a qualified institution relating to the exercise or sale of share options. We and our PRC employees, directors and senior management who receive share options became subject to these regulations upon our initial public offering in the United States. Our 2006 employee share option scheme has been filed with and approved by SAFE. However, if we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations or any of our future share incentive plans are not filed with or approved by SAFE, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. We may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting and properties of an enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, which sets out certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. In addition, the SAT issued a bulletin on August 3, 2011 to provide more guidance on the implementation of the above circular with an effective date to be September 1, 2011. The bulletin clarified resident status determination, post-determination administration, as well as competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of PRC tax resident determination certificate from an offshore incorporated enterprise controlled by PRC residents, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the PRC-sourced dividends, interest, royalties, etc. to the offshore incorporated enterprise controlled by PRC residents. Although both the circular and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those by PRC individuals, the determination criteria set forth in the circular and administration clarification made in the bulletin may reflect the SAT's general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and the administration measures should be implemented, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. While we do not believe we are considered a resident enterprise or meet the criteria under Circular 82, we cannot ensure you that the SAT will not implement Circular 82 or amend the rules in the future to the effect that such rules will apply to us or our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Hong Kong. If the PRC authorities were to subsequently determine that we should be treated as a resident enterprise, a 25% enterprise income tax will be imposed on our global income, which could significantly increase our tax burden and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries, dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to PRC withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New EIT Law, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” are subject to a 10% withholding tax starting from January 1, 2008, unless such shareholders’ jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different arrangement. As of the date of this annual report, the Cayman Islands have not entered into any such tax treaties with the PRC. If we are considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the New EIT Law, dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries will be subject to this 10% withholding tax, which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” is also subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered to be an “offshore-registered resident enterprise,” the dividends we pay to our shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” with respect to our ADSs or shares would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to a 10% withholding tax. The gain that such shareholders realize from the transfer of our ADSs or shares may also be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC income tax if such shareholders are considered as “non-resident enterprises.” Pursuant to the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement, a “beneficial owner” under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements shall engage in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. We cannot assure you that any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC 23 Table of Contents shareholders will be entitled to the benefits under the relevant withholding arrangement set out in a tax treaty between such shareholders’ jurisdiction of incorporation and China. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise ADS holders, or if gain from disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs will be subject to PRC taxes, your investment in our ADSs may be materially adversely affected. Any change in the preferential tax treatment we currently enjoy in the PRC may materially adversely impact our net income. Pursuant to the New EIT Law, enterprises that previously enjoyed preferential treatments of low tax rates will be subject to the new enterprise income tax rate of 25% after a five-year transitional period. Moreover, tax exemption or reduction with fixed terms enjoyed by enterprises including us will continue until the expiry of the prescribed period. Our operating subsidiary, Qizhi Software, our VIE, Beijing Qihu and Beijing Star World Technology Co., Ltd, or Beijing Star World, receive preferential tax treatment in the PRC as “high and new technology enterprises.” As a result, subject to satisfaction of applicable criteria as confirmed by the competent authorities, Qizhi Software was entitled to an exemption from the 15% reduced EIT tax rate in 2008 and a 50% reduction in the 15% reduced EIT tax rate in 2009 and 2010. Qizhi Software received a renewal of its “high and new technology enterprises” status in October 2011 and was entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 15% for 2011. Beijing Qihu was entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 15% for 2009, 2010 and 2011. Beijing Star World received its “high and new technology enterprises” status in November 2011 and was entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 15% for 2011. On April 21, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation issued Circular 157, which seeks to provide additional guidance on the interaction of certain preferential tax rates under the transitional rules of the New EIT Law. Prior to Circular 157, we understood that if a high and new technology enterprise was in a tax holiday period, where it was entitled to a 50% reduction in the tax rate, and it was also entitled to the 15% preferential tax rate, it would be entitled to pay tax at the rate of 7.5%. Circular 157 appears on its face to have the effect that such an entity is entitled to pay taxes at either the lower of 15% or 50% of the standard PRC tax rate. Circular 157 is newly-issued and the tax authorities may differ in explaining the rules, and there might be a risk that the competent tax authority may later decide that Qizhi Software will not be eligible for a 7.5% discounted tax rate and instead a 12.5% preferential tax rate may be applicable. Moreover, the PRC government could eliminate any of these preferential tax treatments before their scheduled expiration. Expiration, reduction or elimination of such preferential tax treatments will increase our income tax expenses and in turn decrease our net income. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Furthermore, the New Contract Labor Law requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not the merits of employees. As a result, the New Labor Contract Law could increase our operating expenses and limit our ability to significantly change or decrease our workforce. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may be volatile. The market price of our ADSs has fluctuated since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on March 30, 2011, the trading price of our ADSs have ranged from $13.71 to $36.21 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 13, 2012 was $21.78 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · regulatory developments in our industry; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 24 Table of Contents · negative publicity, studies or reports, including those issued by short-selling organizations; · changes in conditions of Internet and mobile security industry; · changes in performance and valuation of our peer or comparable companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in our senior management; · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; and · sales or anticipated sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating results of any particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the current and anticipated value of our assets, including goodwill, and composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds an ADS or ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holder. See “ Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the proceeds from our initial public offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our Class A ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2011, we had 179,029,251 ordinary shares outstanding, including 109,392,815 Class A ordinary shares and 25 Table of Contents 69,636,436 Class B ordinary shares. The majority of our ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative participating, optional or special rights and their qualifications, limitations or restrictions. These preferred shares may include dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may provide rights and preferences that holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs do not have. We could issue preferred shares quickly on terms that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If we issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially adversely affected. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. We have a dual-class voting structure such that our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering in April 2011. As of December 31, 2011, Global Village Associates Limited, or Global Village, a holder of our ordinary shares controlled by Mr. Hongyi Zhou, our chairman and chief executive officer, held 32,228,158 Class B ordinary shares. Young Vision Company Limited, or Young Vision, a holder of our ordinary shares controlled by Mr. Xiangdong Qi, our director and president, held 17,633,344 Class B ordinary shares. Sequoia Capital China I, L.P. and its affiliates held 14,202,219 Class B ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of 109,392,815 Class A ordinary shares outstanding and 69,636,436 Class B ordinary shares outstanding. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof, while Class A ordinary shares are not convertible to Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any sale, pledge, transfer, assignment or disposition of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes of shares, as of December 31, 2011, Mr. Hongyi Zhou, Mr. Xiangdong Qi, Sequoia and certain of our executive officers collectively owned approximately 76% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares and have considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our Class A ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. 26 Table of Contents Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement for our ADSs, holders of our ADSs are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs may instruct the depositary how to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying their ADSs, and the depositary will endeavor to carry out those instructions. However, you may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and you may not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems doing so expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, when we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, under any provision of the deposit agreement or for any other reason. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may encounter more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by the management, the board of directors or the controlling shareholders of our company than they would as shareholders of a public company incorporated in the United States. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process upon our directors and officers in the United States. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the federal 27 Table of Contents or state courts of the United States (and the Cayman Islands are not a party to any treaties for the reciprocal enforcement or recognition of such judgments), a judgment obtained in such jurisdiction will be recognized and enforced in the courts of the Cayman Islands at common law, without any re-examination of the merits of the underlying dispute, by an action commenced on the foreign judgment debt in the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands, provided such judgment (a) is given by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction, (b) imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given, (c) is final, (d) is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and (e) was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands. We have incurred additional costs as a result of becoming a public company, which could negatively impact our net income and liquidity. We are a public company in the United States and as such, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange require significantly heightened corporate governance practices for public companies. We expect that these rules and regulations will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and will make many corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. If we fail to comply with these rules and regulations, we could become the subject of a governmental enforcement action, investors may lose confidence in us and the market price of our ADSs could decline. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and our disclosure obligations differ from those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. As a result, we may not provide you the same information as U.S. domestic reporting companies or we may provide information at different times, which may make it more difficult for you to evaluate our performance and prospects. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to the same requirements as U.S. domestic issuers. Under the Exchange Act, we are subject to reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We are not required to disclose detailed individual executive compensation information. Furthermore, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and are not subject to the insider short-swing profit disclosure and recovery regime. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. However, we are still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act. Since many of the disclosure obligations imposed on us as a foreign private issuer differ from those imposed on U.S. domestic reporting companies, you should not expect to receive the same information about us and at the same time as the information provided by U.S. domestic reporting companies. 