D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure—If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our businesses in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in Internet businesses, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we would be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations.” Under the Draft FIL, if a variable interest entity is ultimate controlled by a foreign investor via contractual arrangement, it would be deemed as a foreign investment and thus subject to market entry clearance where such variable interest entity is engaged in the industry on the negative list. If an existing company with a VIE structure continues to engage in an industry on the negative list, the MOFCOM has proposed three possible solutions: (i) the company should declare to the MOFCOM that it is controlled by PRC entities and/or citizens, and the VIE structure would be deemed legitimate; (ii) the company should be determined by the MOFCOM that it is controlled by PRC entities and/or citizens, and the VIE structure would be deemed legitimate; or (iii) the company should pass the market access clearance by the MOFCOM. Conversely, if the actual controlling person is of a foreign nationality, then the variable interest entities will be treated as foreign invested enterprises and any operation in an industry on the negative list without market entry clearance may be considered to be illegal. We may be considered to be ultimately controlled by PRC entities/citizens, as (i) our company was incorporated in Cayman Islands and is currently controlled by Phoenix TV, a company listed in the main board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; and (ii) Mr. Liu Changle, a permanent resident of Hong Kong, is deemed to have control of Phoenix TV as defined in the Codes on Takeovers and Mergers and Share Buy-backs published by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. The Draft FIL has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by PRC entities/citizens, while it is soliciting comments from the public. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the telecommunications and internet information services, online cultural activities, online games and other internet-based industries, in which our variable interest entities operate, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the negative list to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final negative list mandate further actions, such as MOFCOM market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we will face substantial uncertainties as to whether these actions can be timely completed, or at all. As a result, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The Draft FIL, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the Draft FIL imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable foreign-invested enterprises. Reports are required whenever we make a new investment and modify or change our investment. Annual reports are mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to make reports quarterly. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liability, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liability. Press reports concerning possible increased scrutiny by Chinese authorities of the VIE structure used by us and various other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern among investors and caused the price of our common stock to drop, and such reports may have such an effect in the future. We operate a VIE structure in which substantially all of our operations in China are conducted by our affiliated consolidated entities, in which we do not own any equity interest, through our contractual arrangements. In the recent past, various prominent Western news outlets reported that the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, among other Chinese regulatory authorities, may be considering increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation of Chinese companies that use VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including businesses we are engaged in such as Internet information, content and services, online and mobile advertising, and mobile Internet and other value-added telecommunication services. Some of such news reports have also sought to draw a connection between recent widely reported accounting issues at certain Chinese companies and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing significant drops in the market prices of the shares of several Chinese companies, including us, that are publicly-traded in the United States. We believe even if any such Chinese regulatory authorities were to increase scrutiny of VIE structures or adopt regulations specifically governing their use, the possibility is remote that any such scrutiny would have a material adverse impact on us or cause us to change our existing operational structure in any materially adverse way. However, it is possible that there will be such increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation in the future. In addition, while we are not aware of any causal connection between the recently reported accounting scandals and the use of VIE structures, it is possible that investors in our ADSs will believe that such a connection exists. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese companies such as ours and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. 35 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in a loss to you. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including the following: · announcements of competitive developments; · regulatory developments in China affecting us, our clients or our competitors; · announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · addition or departure of our executive officers; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2015, we had 567,369,822 ordinary shares outstanding, including 317,325,360 Class B ordinary shares and 250,044,462 Class A ordinary shares part of which are represented by 30,020,579 ADSs. All ADSs sold in our initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding are available for sale upon the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. In addition, ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options will not be available for sale until the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, certain of our shareholders or their transferees and assignees will have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Private Placement.” Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 1.3 votes per share. Phoenix TV (BVI), which is wholly owned by Phoenix TV, holds Class B ordinary shares, each of which is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Due to the disparate voting rights attached to these two classes, Phoenix TV (BVI) has significant voting rights over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and certain corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations and other business combinations. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. 36 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association may discourage a third party from offering to acquire our company, which could limit your opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium. Our currently effective, second amended and restated articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we may, rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The NYSE Listed Company Manual in general require listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of its board be independent, an audit committee consisting of a minimum of three members and a nominating and corporate governance committee consisting solely of independent directors. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow, and we follow, certain home country corporate governance practices instead of the above requirements of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors or the implementation of an audit committee or nominating and corporate governance committee. We rely upon the relevant home country exemption and exemptions afforded to controlled companies in lieu of certain corporate governance practices, such as having less than a majority of the board be independent and establishing an audit committee consisting of two independent directors. As a result, the level of independent oversight over management of our company may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act, (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time, and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, the executive compensation disclosure requirements to which we are subject under Form 20-F are less rigorous than those required of U.S. issuers under Form 10-K. Furthermore, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are not large accelerated filers or accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the Regulation FD, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. Although we intend to make quarterly reports available to our shareholders in a timely manner and are required under the Exchange Act to provide current reports on Form 6-K, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a Delaware company. 37 Table of Contents Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. Moreover, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Holders of ADSs must act through the depositary to exercise their rights as shareholders of our company. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement for the ADSs. Under our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is 10 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 38 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends or other distributions if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive any such distribution. 