Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. Risks related to the oil and natural gas industry and our business A decline in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: •worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of OPEC; •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; •political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; •the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; •the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; •localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; •weather conditions and natural disasters; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations; •speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; •price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than 12-month) contracts at market based prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability and the present value of our reserves. See "—Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or 36 Table of Contents financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves" below. Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may affect our proved reserves. See also "—The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves" below. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because approximately 64.5% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 were oil and natural gas liquids reserves, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices. The price of oil has been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the daily NYMEX WTI oil spot price ranged from a high of $110.29 per Bbl to a low of $85.52 per Bbl, and the NYMEX natural gas Henry Hub spot price ranged from $3.24 to $4.51 per MMBtu. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, we had commodity price hedging agreements on approximately 42% of our estimated Boe production. To the extent we are unhedged or our hedge parties default in their obligations, we have significant exposure to adverse changes in the prices of oil and natural gas that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see "—Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves" below. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: •shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; •facility or equipment malfunctions; •unexpected operational events; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms; •reductions in oil and natural gas prices; •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; •proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; •title problems; and •limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. 37 Table of Contents Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See "Item 1. Business—Estimated Proved Reserves" for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the limited production history of our undeveloped acreage, the estimates of future production associated with such properties may be subject to greater variance to actual production than would be the case with properties having a longer production history. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the regions where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in the Rocky Mountains are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas on federal lands, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year. These restrictions limit our ability to operate in those areas and can potentially intensify competition for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with new SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; •actual cost of development and production expenditures; 38 Table of Contents •the amount and timing of actual production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If oil prices decline by $10.00/Bbl, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2011 would decrease by approximately $129 million. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques; therefore, the results of our planned exploratory drilling in these plays are subject to drilling and completion technique risks and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations, such as horizontal drilling in the Niobrara oil shale, are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas or using technologies that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and consequently we are less able to predict future drilling results in these areas. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and limited takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. Our exploration and development activities are capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Our cash flows used in investing activities were $158.9 million and $36.6 million (including $1.8 million and $1.1 million for the acquisition of oil and gas properties) related to capital and exploration expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our capital expenditure budget for 2012 is approximately $250 million, with approximately $220 million allocated for drilling and completion operations. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A significant improvement in oil and gas prices could result in an increase in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional equity securities, debt securities or the sale of non-strategic assets. The issuance of additional debt or equity may require that a portion of our cash flows provided by operating activities be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, upon the issuance of certain debt securities (other than on a borrowing base redetermination date), our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility would be reduced. Our cash flows provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our proved reserves; •the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; •the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; •the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production; •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; •the ability and willingness of our banks to lend; and •our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. If the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our leases and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount available under our revolving credit facility. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Our business depends on oil and natural gas gathering and transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance, weather or other interruptions of service could also negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by lack of transportation, capacity constraints and interruptions. The marketability of our production from the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and California regions depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of third-party refineries, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. We deliver crude oil and natural gas produced from these areas through trucking services and pipelines that we do not own. The lack of availability or capacity on these systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could adversely affect our cash flow. Currently, there are no natural gas pipeline systems that service wells in the North Park Basin, which is prospective for the Niobrara oil shale. In addition, we are not aware of any plans to construct a facility necessary to process natural gas produced from this basin. If neither we nor a third party constructs the required pipeline system and processing facility, we may not be able to fully develop our resources in the North Park Basin. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. Approximately 61% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2011. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. 41 Table of Contents Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our current proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced and, therefore, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. According to estimates included in our December 31, 2011 proved reserve report, if on January 1, 2012 we had ceased all drilling and development, including recompletions, refracs and workovers, then our proved developed producing reserves base would decline at an annual effective rate of 7.7% over 10 years, including 31.6% during the first year. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third-parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. If our production becomes shut-in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: •environmental hazards, such as spills, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; •releases of toxic gas (including releases at our gas processing facilities) or of other substances such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; •hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in gas we produce. 42 Table of Contents •abnormally pressured formations resulting in well blowouts, fires or explosions; •mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; •cratering (catastrophic failure); •personal injuries and death; and •natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. At one of our Arkansas properties, we produce a small amount of gas from seven operated (gross) wells where we have identified the presence of H2S at levels which would be hazardous in the event of an uncontrolled gas release or unprotected exposure. In addition, our operations in Arkansas are susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as flooding or tornados, which involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. The occurrence of one of these operating hazards may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration and development, or could result in a loss of our properties. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years, and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If we incur substantial liability, and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We carry insurance to reduce our exposure to sudden and accidental environmental contamination but do not have coverage for gradual, long-term contamination. Our policies include operator's extra expense ("OEE") coverage with a $1.0 million limit per occurrence; commercial general liability ("CGL") coverage with a time element pollution limit of $1.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate; and excess liability coverage with a $10.0 million limit per occurrence and in the aggregate. Our OEE policy provides primary coverage for the cleanup of polluting or contaminating substances caused by a sudden and accidental loss of control of a well at the surface. The CGL and Excess Liability policies also provide sudden and accidental pollution liability coverage, including coverage in excess of the OEE policy limit for pollution caused by a well out of control at the surface. In order to obtain coverage, we must report the event to the insurance company within 90 days after its commencement. The CGL policy also contains a $1.0 million aggregate limit for damage to oil, gas, water or other mineral substances that have not been reduced to physical possession above the surface. Because hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event, provided that we report the event within 90 days after its commencement. We may not have coverage if the operator is unaware of the pollution event and 43 Table of Contents unable to report the "occurrence" to the insurance company within the required time frame. Nor do we have coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events. Under certain circumstances, we have agreed to indemnify third parties against losses resulting from our operations. Pursuant to our surface leases, we typically indemnify the surface owner for clean up and remediation of the site. As owner and operator of oil and gas wells and associated gathering systems and pipelines, we typically indemnify the drilling contractor for pollution emanating from the well, while the contractor indemnifies us against pollution emanating from its equipment. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. We describe some of our drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Our potential drilling location inventories are scheduled to be developed over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2011, only 400 gross (287 net) of our approximately 1,200 identified potential future gross drilling locations were attributed to proved undeveloped reserves. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. The terms of certain of our oil and gas leases stipulate that the lease will terminate if not held by production. As of December 31, 2011, all of our acreage in Arkansas was held by production and not subject to lease expiration. As of December 31, 2011, 32,820 net acres of our properties in the Rocky 44 Table of Contents Mountain region, specifically 8,000 acres in the Wattenberg Field and 24,820 acres in the North Park Basin, were not held by production. For these properties, if production in paying quantities is not established on units containing these leases during the next three years, then 2,119 net acres will expire in 2012, 11,453 net acres will expire in 2013 and 36 net acres will expire in 2014. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in governmental sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in sections where we are not the operator. For certain properties in which we are a non-operating leaseholder, we have the right to propose the drilling of wells pursuant to a joint operating agreement. Those properties that are not subject to a joint operating agreement are located in states where state law grants us the right to force pooling, except for our properties located in California, where state law does not grant the right to force pooling. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We purchase working and revenue interests in oil and natural gas leasehold interests from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not generally available and, in all instances, we forego the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease until the drilling block is assembled and ready to be drilled, except in Arkansas where we have commenced drilling without complete legal examination of title. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of oil and natural gas lease brokers, in-house landmen or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest. We do not always perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. Except for our properties in Arkansas, we obtain title opinions for specific drilling locations prior to the commencement of drilling. In Arkansas, we have commenced drilling but are in the process of obtaining title opinions. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases can be lost, and the target area can become undrillable. We may be subject to litigation from time to time as a result of title issues. Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may impose on our operations numerous requirements, including the obligation to obtain a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; restrictions on the types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment; limitations or prohibitions of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; specific health and safety criteria to protect workers; and the responsibility for cleaning up any pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in 45 Table of Contents the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations; and delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. There is an inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations, some of which may be material, due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, our emissions to air and water, the underground injection or other disposal of our wastes, the use of hydraulic fracturing fluids and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable regardless of whether we were at fault for the full cost of removing or remediating contamination, even when multiple parties contributed to the release and the contaminants were released in compliance with all applicable laws. In addition, accidental spills or releases on our properties may expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Aside from government agencies, the owners of properties where our wells are located, the operators of facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal and other private parties may be able to sue us to enforce compliance with environmental laws and regulations, collect penalties for violations or obtain damages for any related personal injury or property damage. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly material handling, emission, waste management or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Our operations utilize hydraulic fracturing, an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. This process involves the injection of water, proppant and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Some activists have attempted to link fracturing to various environmental problems, including adverse effects to drinking water supplies as well as migration of methane and other hydrocarbons. As a result, the federal government is studying any environmental risk with respect to hydraulic fracturing and evaluating whether to restrict its use. Legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress that would amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") to eliminate an existing exemption for certain hydraulic fracturing activities from the definition of "underground injection," thereby requiring the oil and natural gas industry to obtain permits for fracturing, and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the process. If adopted, such legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. At this time, it is not clear what action, if any, the United States Congress will take on hydraulic fracturing. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the EPA having commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the initial results of which are anticipated to be available by late 2012. In addition, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. The U.S. Department of the Interior has also announced its intention to propose a new rule regulating hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including requirements for disclosure, well bore integrity and handling of flowback water, which, if adopted, would affect our operations on federal lands. In addition to these federal initiatives, several state and local governments have moved to require disclosure of fracturing fluid components or otherwise to regulate their use more closely, including states in which we operate (Colorado, California and Arkansas). In certain areas of the country, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been 46 Table of Contents put on hold pending development of additional standards. The adoption of any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations imposing permitting or reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations and increase our costs of compliance and doing business, as well as delay or prevent the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHG") may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHG have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services and the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns). In December 2009, EPA determined that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane, and certain other GHG present an endangerment to public health and welfare because such gases are, according to EPA, contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Consistent with its findings, EPA has proposed or adopted various regulations under the Clean Air Act to address GHG. Among other things, the Agency is limiting emissions of GHG from new cars and light duty trucks beginning with the 2012 model year. In addition, EPA has published a final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or "PSD," and Title V permitting programs, pursuant to which these permitting requirements have been "tailored" to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions will be required to meet emissions limits that are based on the "best available control technology," which will be established by the permitting agencies on a case-by-case basis. EPA has also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and natural gas production facilities, which include certain of our operations, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011 and which may form the basis for further regulation. Many of EPA's GHG rules are subject to legal challenges, but have not been stayed pending judicial review. Depending on the outcome of such proceedings, such rules may be modified or rescinded or the EPA could develop new rules. EPA's GHG rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Moreover, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHG or promote the use of renewable fuels. As an alternative, some proponents of GHG controls have advocated mandating a national "clean energy" standard. In 2011, President Obama encouraged Congress to adopt a goal of generating 80% of U.S. electricity from "clean energy" by 2035 with credit for renewable and nuclear power and partial credit for clean coal and "efficient natural gas"; the President also proposed ending tax breaks for the oil industry. Because of the lack of any comprehensive federal legislative program expressly addressing GHG, there currently is a great deal of uncertainty as to how and when additional federal regulation of GHG might take place and as to whether EPA should continue with its existing regulations in the absence of more specific Congressional direction. In the meantime, many states, including California, already have taken such measures, which have included renewable energy standards, development of GHG emission inventories and/or cap and trade programs. Cap and trade programs typically work by requiring major sources of emissions or major 47 Table of Contents producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of available allowances reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHG could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHG could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms and floods. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. Our insurance may not cover some or any of the damages, losses, or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory drilling locations or to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drilling attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Michael R. Starzer, our President and Chief Executive Officer or any of the Executive Vice Presidents of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. 48 Table of Contents We recorded substantial compensation expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we are likely to incur substantial additional compensation expense related to our future grants of stock compensation which may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. As a result of outstanding stock-based compensation awards that vested upon consummation of our IPO, we incurred compensation expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 in the amount of $4.4 million. In addition, our compensation expenses may increase in the future as compared to our historical expenses because of the costs associated with our stock-based incentive plans. These additional expenses will adversely affect our net income. We cannot determine the actual amount of these new stock-related compensation and benefit expenses at this time because applicable accounting practices generally require that they be based on the fair market value of the options or shares of common stock at the date of the grant; however, we expect them to be significant. We will recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options generally over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars and fixed-price swaps. We have not designated any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; •the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or •there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements. Current or proposed financial legislation and rulemaking could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, establishes, among other provisions, federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") is required to implement rules relating to these activities by July 16, 2012. On October 18, 2011, the CFTC approved regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, which regulations are presently being challenged in federal court by the Securities Industry Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. 49 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt obligations. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: •selling assets; •reducing or delaying capital investments; •seeking to raise additional capital; or •refinancing or restructuring our debt. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings. If amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Please see 50 Table of Contents "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and capital resources." Our revolving credit facility contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •sell assets; •pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock •make investments; •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •create or incur certain liens; •make certain acquisitions and investments; •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; •engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, we had $6.6 million of indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and $213.4 million available for future secured borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We intend to fund our capital expenditures through our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; •a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; •a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; •our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; •a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; and •a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. 51 Table of Contents A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. Borrowings under our credit facility are limited by our borrowing base, which is subject to periodic redetermination. The borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined at least semi-annually, and the lenders holding 662/3% of the aggregate commitments or we may request one additional redetermination in each six-month period. Redeterminations are based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition, our lenders have substantial flexibility to reduce our borrowing base due to subjective factors. Upon a redetermination, we could be required to repay a portion of our bank debt to the extent our outstanding borrowings at such time exceed the redetermined borrowing base. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments, which could result in a default under the terms of the facility and an acceleration of the loans thereunder requiring us to negotiate renewals, arrange new financing or sell significant assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil and natural gas production ($17.9 million in receivables at December 31, 2011), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. We are subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. This concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk since these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to Lion Oil Trading & Transport and Plains Marketing accounted for approximately 35% and 45%, respectively, of our total sales. For the year ended December 31, 2010, sales to Lion Oil Trading & Transport and Plains Marketing accounted for approximately 52% and 30%, respectively, of our total sales. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. Failure to archive and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with rules of the SEC could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under current SEC rules, we will be required to issue a report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, and on an annual basis thereafter, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This assessment will require us to document, assess and test our internal controls over financial reporting more comprehensively than we do currently. In addition, our outside auditors will be required to audit and report on our internal controls. We are currently on task to be compliant with Section 404 at the Entity Level Control Level and will 52 Table of Contents commence our work at the Activity Control Level during the second quarter 2012 to ensure compliance by the SEC rules deadline of December 31, 2012. To complete our assessment, we will be required to enhance the documentation of our policies, procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, assess the effectiveness of the design of those controls and test whether those controls are operating as designed. This process, which we are currently conducting, involves considerable time and expense. During the course of our assessment, we may identify material weaknesses that we will attempt to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal controls. Our ability to report results in a timely, complete and accurate manner will provide all parties with the Company's financial position and the disclosure of material events. The efforts we have undertaken, or will undertake, to address any issues, that may arise or be discovered in the future will be designed to ensure our compliance. We have taken actions to adopt more extensive accounting controls and financial review procedures and hired additional accounting and information technology staff. Prior to 2012, we had outsourced these functions to third party vendors. As a result of the reporting and disclosure requirements of a public company under the Exchange Act, the NYSE rules and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have begun to incur significant additional costs and expenses and our compliance with these requirements requires a substantial amount of management's time. As a public company with listed equity securities, we need to comply with laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE, with which we were not required to comply as a private company for most of 2011. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will continue to significantly increase our costs and expenses. In addition, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations has increased our cost to obtain director and officer liability insurance coverage and could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. On September 12, 2011, President Obama sent to Congress a legislative package that includes proposed legislation that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These proposals were also included in President Obama's Proposed Fiscal Year 2012 Budget. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress have considered similar changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect oil and gas exploration and production companies, which, if enacted, would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions within the industry that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock We do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our shareholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our stock appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently prohibited from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our revolving credit facility. Consequently, our shareholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates, which may not occur, and the shareholder sells their shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that the shareholder paid. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our current stockholders' ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. Black Bear, a fund advised by West Face Capital, and certain clients of AIMCo own 21,166,134 shares, or approximately 53.6% of our total outstanding shares. Each of West Face Capital and certain clients of AIMCo is a party to a registration rights agreement with us. Pursuant to this agreement, subject to the terms of the lock-up agreement between such parties and the underwriters of our IPO, we have agreed to effect the registration of shares held by Black Bear, a fund advised by West Face Capital, and certain clients of AIMCo if they so request or if we conduct other offerings of our common stock. In addition, in connection with our IPO, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of additional shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our long term incentive plan. Shares registered under this registration statement on Form S-8 and issued to our employees in the future will be available for sale in the open market after any vesting or other restrictions lapse. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The equity trading markets may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. The market price of our common stock could similarly be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •domestic and worldwide supplies and prices of, and demand for, oil and gas •changes in environmental and other governmental regulations affecting the oil and gas industry; •variations in our quarterly results of operations or cash flows; and •changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and gas industry. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. 54 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that may prevent, discourage or frustrate attempts to replace or remove our current management by our stockholders, even if such replacement or removal may be in our stockholders' best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that could enable our management to resist a takeover attempt. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •establish advance notice procedures with regard to stockholder proposals relating to director nominations or new business to be brought before stockholder meetings. These procedures provide that notice of stockholder proposals must be timely given in writing to our corporate secretary prior to the meeting at which the action is to be taken. Generally, to be timely, notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year. Our bylaws specify the requirements as to form and content of all stockholder notices. These requirements may preclude stockholders from bringing matters before the stockholders at an annual or special meeting; •provide our board of directors the ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock and to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to gain control of us. These and other provisions may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of our company; •provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered three year terms, other than directors which may be elected by holders of preferred stock, if any. This system of electing and removing directors may tend to discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, because it generally makes it more difficult for stockholders to replace a majority of the directors; •provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; •provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; •provide that stockholders may only act at a duly called meeting and may not act by written consent in lieu of a meeting; •provide that special meetings of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors, the Chairperson, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and not by our stockholders; and •provide that our board of directors may alter or repeal our bylaws or approve new bylaws without further stockholder approval. These provisions could: •discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management, even if the change would be in the best interests of our stockholders; •adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 55 Table of Contents West Face Capital and AIMCo together may be deemed to beneficially own or control a significant portion of our common stock, giving them a substantial influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Their interests and the interests of the parties on whose behalf they invest may conflict with our other stockholders, and the concentration of ownership of our common stock by such stockholders will limit the influence of public stockholders. West Face Capital and AIMCo together may be deemed to beneficially own, control or have substantial influence over approximately 53.6% of our outstanding common stock. West Face Capital and AIMCo, on behalf of certain of its clients, have entered into an investment management agreement pursuant to which West Face Capital has the right to vote the shares of our common stock held by certain clients of AIMCo. West Face Capital also has the right, pursuant to an advisory agreement with Black Bear, to vote the shares held by Black Bear, and accordingly, West Face Capital may exert significant influence over our board of directors and substantially influence the outcome of stockholder votes. Even if the investment management agreement between West Face Capital and AIMCo were to be terminated, West Face Capital and AIMCo, on behalf of its clients, voting together as a group would have the ability to exert significant influence over the company. The investment management agreement with AIMCo may be terminated upon 90 days prior written notice or immediately in certain circumstances. A concentration of ownership in West Face Capital alone or together with AIMCo's clients would allow such stockholders to significantly influence, directly or indirectly and subject to applicable law, significant matters affecting us, including the following: •establishment of business strategy and policies •amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws •the payment of dividends on our common stock •nomination and election of directors; •appointment and removal of officers •our capital structure; and •compensation of directors, officers and employees and other employee-related matters. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, and could discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The significant ownership interest of Black Bear, a fund advised by West Face Capital, and certain clients of AIMCo could also adversely affect investors' perceptions of our corporate governance. Further, because of the voting control exercised by West Face Capital, we are considered a "controlled company" for purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. Although we do not currently intend to rely upon the exemptions to the NYSE's independence standards available for controlled companies, we may choose to do so in the future to the extent we remain a controlled company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 