Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described below are the principal risk factors associated with an investment in us as well as those factors generally associated with an investment company with investment objectives, investment policies, capital structure or trading markets similar to ours. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history as a business development company. Prior to October 2012, we did not operate as a business development company or RIC. As a result, we are subject to business risks and uncertainties, including the risk that we will not maintain our status as a business development company or achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. The lack of experience of our Investment Adviser in operating under the constraints imposed on us as a business development company and RIC may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to other investment vehicles managed by Garrison Investment Group and its affiliates. Business development companies are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets in qualifying assets, including U.S. private or thinly-traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as a qualifying asset only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. Neither we nor our Investment Adviser has long-term experience operating under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we cannot assure you that our Investment Adviser will be able to operate our business under these constraints. Any failure to do so could subject us to enforcement action by the SEC, cause us to fail to satisfy the requirements associated with RIC status, cause us to fail the 70% test described above or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to business development companies and possibly lose our status as a business development company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms, or at all. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss or otherwise for less than we could have received if we were able to sell them at a later time. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS We depend upon key personnel of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliates. We are an externally managed business development company, and therefore we do not have any internal management capacity or employees. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Investment Adviser to achieve our investment objective. We expect that our Investment Adviser will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement. Our Investment Adviser is an affiliate of Garrison Investment Group and, in turn, depends upon access to the investment professionals and other resources of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. Garrison Capital Advisers also depends upon Garrison Investment Group to obtain access to deal flow generated by the professionals of Garrison Investment Group. Under the Staffing Agreement, Garrison Investment Group has agreed to provide our Investment Adviser with the resources necessary to fulfill these obligations. The Staffing Agreement provides that Garrison Investment Group will make available to Garrison Capital Advisers experienced investment professionals and access to the senior investment personnel of Garrison Investment Group for purposes of evaluating, negotiating, structuring, closing and monitoring our investments. We are not a party to the Staffing Agreement and cannot assure you that Garrison Investment Group will fulfill its obligations under the agreement. If Garrison Investment Group fails to perform, we cannot assure you that Garrison Capital Advisers will enforce the Staffing Agreement, that such agreement will not be terminated by either party or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliates or their market knowledge and deal flow. We depend upon the senior professionals of Garrison Investment Group to maintain relationships with potential sources of lending opportunities, and we intend to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that these individuals will continue to indirectly provide investment advice to us. If these individuals, including the members of our investment committee, do not maintain their existing relationships with Garrison Investment Group, maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the senior professionals of Garrison Investment Group have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. If our Investment Adviser is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage our business and to grow our business. This depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. This, in turn, depends on the ability of Garrison Investment Group’s investment professionals to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will depend upon our Investment Adviser’s execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our Investment Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory Agreement. The personnel of Garrison Investment Group who are made available to our Investment Adviser under the Staffing Agreement are engaged in other business activities and may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies, either of which could distract them, divert their time and attention or otherwise cause them not to dedicate a significant portion of their time to our businesses which could slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS The highly competitive market for investment opportunities in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities. A number of entities continue to compete with us to make investments in middle-market companies. We compete with public and private funds, including other business development companies, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, as competition for investment opportunities increases, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds and collateralized loan obligations, may invest in middle-market companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in middle-market companies could intensify. Many of our potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Entrants in our industry compete on several factors, including price, flexibility in transaction structuring, customer service, reputation, market knowledge and speed in decision-making. We do not intend to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may reduce our net investment income and increase our risk of credit loss. Global capital markets could enter a period of severe disruption and instability. These conditions have historically affected and could again materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and around the world and our business. Since mid-2007, the global capital markets have experienced a period of disruption resulting in increased spreads between the yields realized on riskier debt securities and those realized on securities perceived to be risk-free, such as U.S. treasuries, a lack of liquidity in parts of the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector relating to subprime mortgages and the re-pricing of credit risk in the syndicated loan market. During recent years interest rates have remained low. Because longer-term inflationary pressure is likely to result from the U.S. government’s fiscal policies and challenges during this time, we will likely experience rising interest rates, rather than falling rates, at some point in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity or uncertainty regarding U.S. government deficit and spending levels, including negotiation of federal spending cuts, and implementation of global fiscal austerity measures may lead to a general decline in economic conditions, which could materially and adversely affect the broader financial and credit markets and reduce the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and to financial firms in particular. This may cause our lenders to attempt to accelerate our indebtedness, to the extent that we wish to incur indebtedness to fund new investments, to renew or refinance existing indebtedness, including the notes issued by the CLO which are currently scheduled to mature no later than September 25, 2023, to obtain other lines of credit or to issue senior securities during such unfavorable economic conditions, including future recessions, the debt capital that will be available to us, if at all, may be at a higher cost, and on terms and conditions that may be less favorable than we expect, which could negatively affect our financial performance and results. In addition, further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating or perceived creditworthiness of the United States or other large global economies, could adversely affect global financial markets and economic conditions. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have elected to be treated as a RIC and intend to qualify annually for such treatment. If we are unable to qualify as a RIC, we will be subject to corporate-level income tax. We have elected to be treated as a RIC under the Code and intend to qualify annually for such treatment. To qualify as a RIC under the Code and obtain RIC tax benefits, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short term capital gains in excess of realized net short term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. To the extent we use preferred stock or debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under preferred stock or loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax benefits. If we fail to make sufficient distributions, as a result of contractual restrictions or otherwise, we may fail to qualify for such benefits and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because we anticipate that most of our investments will be in the debt of relatively illiquid middle-market private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. Our returns will be reduced by any U.S. corporate income tax that our subsidiaries pay. Some of the income and fees that we recognize will not satisfy the 90% Income Test described above. In order to ensure that such income and fees do not disqualify us as a RIC for a failure to satisfy the 90% Income Test or for other reasons, we may be required to recognize certain income and fees indirectly through one or more entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such corporations will be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on their earnings, which ultimately will reduce our return on such income and fees. In addition, we may invest in partnerships, including qualified publicly traded partnerships and limited liability companies treated as partnerships for tax purposes, which may result in our being subject to state, local or foreign income, franchise or withholding liabilities. Non-U.S. stockholders may be adversely affected by a scheduled change in U.S. federal income tax law. Under a provision applicable for taxable years of RICs beginning before January 1, 2015, properly designated dividends received by a Non-U.S. stockholder are generally exempt from U.S. federal withholding tax when they (a) are paid in respect of “qualified net interest income” (generally, U.S. source interest income, other than certain contingent interest and interest from obligations of a corporation or partnership in which we are at least a 10% stockholder, reduced by expenses that are allocable to such income), or (b) are paid in connection with “qualified short-term capital gains” (generally, the excess of net short-term capital gain over long-term capital loss for such taxable year). If such provision is not extended, non-U.S. stockholders will be subject to 30% U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions other than actual or deemed distributions of our net capital gains unless reduced under the Code or an applicable tax treaty. There can be no assurance that the provision will be extended, and we may also choose not to designate some or all of the distributions potentially eligible for the exemption. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. The credit risk associated with the collectability of deferred payments may be increased as and when a portfolio company increases the amount of interest on which it is deferring cash payment through deferred interest features. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment assets, and increases in loan balances 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS as a result of PIK interest will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Our investments with a deferred interest feature, such as PIK interest, may represent a higher credit risk than loans for which interest must be paid in full in cash on a regular basis. For example, even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is scheduled to occur upon maturity of the obligation. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to obtain RIC tax benefits. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits and thus be subject to corporate level income tax. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company, including those related to the issuance of senior securities, will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional debt or equity capital. We expect that we will require a substantial amount of capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a business development company to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities (other than the SBA debentures of an SBIC subsidiary, as permitted by exemptive relief we have been granted by the SEC). If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this ratio. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a business development company, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below current net asset value per share. We may, however, issue or sell our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock, or sell warrants, options or rights to acquire such common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and if our stockholders approve such sale within the preceding 12 months. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We also may conduct rights offerings at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Our strategy involves a high degree of leverage. We intend to continue to finance our investments with borrowed money, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The risks of investment in a highly leverage fund include volatility and possible distribution restrictions. Our strategy involves a high degree of leverage. The use of leverage, including through the issuance of senior securities, magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. We have incurred leverage in the past and currently incur leverage through the CLO and the notes issued by GLC Trust 2013-2, or the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes, and, from time to time, intend to incur additional leverage to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. The risks of investing in a highly leveraged fund include volatility and possible distribution restrictions. In the future, we may borrow from, and issue senior securities, to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Holders of these senior securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such holders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instruments into which we 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS may enter. In addition, under the terms of any credit facility or other debt instrument we enter into, we are likely to be required by its terms to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leverage would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our equity stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to service our debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the management fee payable to our Investment Adviser. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200% (other than the SBA debentures of an SBIC subsidiary, as permitted by exemptive relief we have been granted by the SEC). If this ratio declines below 200% (other than the SBA debentures of an SBIC subsidiary, as permitted by exemptive relief we have been granted by the SEC), we cannot incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Investment Adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary purposes without regard to asset coverage. In addition, the terms governing the CLO, the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes and any indebtedness that we incur in the future could impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that may hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under the Code. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses, as of December 31, 2014. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to common stockholder(1) -22 % -13 % -3 % 7 % 17 % (1) Assumes $505.8 million in total assets, $210.4 million of debt outstanding under the CLO, $30.9 million of debt outstanding under the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes, $261.1 million in net assets as of December 31, 2014 and an average cost of funds of 2.25%, 2.46%, 4.04%, 5.34% and 4.01%, which were the weighted average effective interest rates of the Class A-1R Notes, Class A-1T Notes, Class A-2 Notes, the Class B Notes and the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes, respectively, for the period ended December 31, 2014, and includes the effects of the amortization of deferred debt issuance costs. The weighted average effective interest rate for our total outstanding debt was 3.04% as of December 31, 2014. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $241.3 million as of December 31, 2014 and an average cost of funds of 2.25%, 2.46%, 4.04%, 5.34% and 4.01%, which were the weighted average effective interest rates of the Class A-1R Notes, Class A-1T Notes, Class A-2 Notes, Class B Notes and the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes, respectively, as of that date, our investment portfolio must experience an annual return of at least 1.47% to cover annual interest payments on the CLO and the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, in connection with the formation of the CLO we securitized a large portion of our loans to generate cash for funding new investments and may seek to securitize additional loans in the future. To securitize additional loans in the future, we may create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. This could include the sale of 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools, and we would retain a portion of the equity in any such securitized pool of loans. An inability to securitize part of our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and increase our earnings. Moreover, certain types of securitization transactions may expose us to greater risk of loss. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our ordinary income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth and such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We will need additional capital to fund growth in our investment portfolio. We may issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain this additional capital. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. If we fail to obtain additional capital to fund new investments, this could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. We are subject to risks associated with the CLO. As a result of the CLO, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below. The Retained Notes are subordinated obligations of the CLO. We indirectly own all of the Subordinated Notes. We refer to the Subordinated Notes and the Class C Notes collectively as the “Retained Notes.” We consolidate the financial statements of the CLO in our consolidated financial statements and treat the Class A Notes and Class B Notes as leverage. The Retained Notes are the most junior classes of securities issued by the CLO. They are subordinated in priority of payment to every other class of notes issued by the CLO and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. In accordance with the priority of payment provisions of the indenture of the CLO, all principal proceeds are generally required to be used to pay down every other class of notes issued by the CLO prior to the Retained Notes. In addition, the Retained Notes generally have only limited voting rights and generally do not benefit from any creditors’ rights or ability to exercise remedies under the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. The Retained Notes are not guaranteed by another party. The Subordinated Notes do not bear a stated rate of interest, and the Class C Notes bear interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 5.5%. We receive cash distributions on the Retained Notes only if CLO has made all required cash interest payments on all of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes it has issued. We view the Subordinated Notes as an equity investment in the CLO and the Class C Notes as additional funding and cannot assure you that distributions on the assets held by the CLO will be sufficient to make any distributions to us or that the yield on the Retained Notes will meet our expectations. The Subordinated Notes are unsecured and rank behind all of the secured creditors, known or unknown, of the CLO, including the holders of the Class A Notes, Class B Notes and Class C Notes it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the CLO’s portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, defaulted loans, capital gains and losses on the underlying assets, prepayment or changes in interest rates, the value of the Subordinated Notes realized at their redemption could be reduced. Accordingly, the Subordinated Notes may not be paid in full and may be subject to up to 100% loss. The Retained Notes are a highly leveraged investment. As of December 31, 2014, the CLO owed approximately $210.4 million under the Class A Notes and Class B Notes, and the fair value of the investments held by the CLO was $339.2 million. The leveraged 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS nature of the Retained Notes may magnify the adverse impact on the Retained Notes of changes in the market value of the investments held by the CLO, changes in the distributions on those investments, defaults and recoveries on those investments, capital gains and losses on those investments, prepayments on those investments and availability, prices and interest rates of those investments. We are prepared to hold the Retained Notes for an indefinite period of time or until their stated maturity. The interests of investors in certain of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes may not be aligned with our interests, and we may have no control over remedies. Generally, institutional investors hold the Class A Notes and Class B Notes. The Class A Notes and Class B Notes rank senior in right of payment to the Retained Notes. As a result, there are circumstances in which the interests of investors in a class of notes may not be aligned with the interests of holders of the other classes of notes issued by the CLO. For example, under the terms of the indenture, investors in the Class A-1R Notes and Class A-1T Notes, or together, the Class A-1 Notes, have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to investors in all other classes of notes. As the holder of the Retained Notes, we are generally not entitled to exercise remedies under the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. For as long as the Class A-1 Notes, remain outstanding, investors in the Class A-1 Notes comprise the most senior class of notes of the CLO then outstanding, or the Controlling Class, under the CLO. Upon repayment of the Class A-1 Notes, investors in the Class A-2 Notes will become the Controlling Class. Upon repayment of the Class A Notes, investors in the Class B Notes will become the Controlling Class. Upon repayment of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes, investors in the Class C Notes will become the Controlling Class. The Controlling Class has the right to act in certain circumstances with respect to the portfolio loans in ways that may benefit their interests but not in the interests of other investors in more junior classes of notes, including by exercising remedies, waiving events of default or rescinding declaration of acceleration of the notes under the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. The Controlling Class has no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect on any other class of notes. For example, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default with respect to the notes issued by the CLO, the trustee, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, or holders of a majority of the Controlling Class may declare the principal of all the Secured Notes and all other amounts payable by the CLO to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the principal on such notes and triggering a repayment obligation on the part of the CLO. The CLO may not have sufficient proceeds available to enable the trustee under the indenture to repay the obligations of holders of the Retained Notes. The Controlling Class may be less likely to waive an event of default or rescind declaration of acceleration of outstanding amounts than traditional lenders to business development companies, including banks and their affiliates, under senior secured credit facilities. We cannot assure you that any remedies pursued by the Controlling Class will be in our best interests or that we will receive any payments or distributions upon an acceleration of the notes. Any failure of the CLO to make distributions on the Retained Notes, whether as a result of an event of default or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may result our inability to make distributions sufficient to allow our qualification as a RIC. CLO may fail to meet certain asset coverage tests, which would have an adverse effect on the time of payments to us. Under the documents governing the CLO, there are two coverage tests applicable to the Secured Notes. The first such test compares the amount of interest received on the collateral loans held by the CLO to the amount of interest payable in respect of the Secured Notes. To meet this first test, the aggregate amount of interest received on the portfolio loans must equal, after the payment of certain fees and expenses, at least 135% of the interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes, 125% of the interest payable on the Class A Notes and the Class B Notes, taken together, and 115% of the interest payable on the Class A Notes, Class B Notes and Class C Notes, taken together. The second such test compares the aggregate principal amount of the collateral loans, as calculated in accordance with the indenture, to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Secured Notes. To meet this second test at any time, the aggregate principal amount of the collateral loans must equal at least 173.4% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes, 156.1% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes and the Class B Notes, taken together, and 148.1% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes, Class B Notes and Class C 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Notes, taken together. If any coverage test is not satisfied with respect to a quarterly payment date, the CLO is required to apply available amounts to the repayment of interest on and principal of the Class A Notes, then the Class B Notes and then the Class C Notes to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable coverage tests. In addition, if the aggregate principal amount of the collateral loans to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes is less than or equal to 115% as of any measurement date, a majority of the Controlling Class may direct the sale and liquidation of assets held by the CLO, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restructurings of investments held by the CLO may decrease their value and reduce amounts payable on the Retained Notes. GF 2013-2 Manager and the CLO entered into a collateral management agreement, an agreement entered into between a manager and a debt securitization vehicle or similar issuer, which sets forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which the manager provides advisory and/or management services with respect to the client’s securities portfolio. Under the collateral management agreement, GF 2013-2 Manager serves as collateral manager of the CLO. In addition, GF 2013-2 Manager has entered into a sub-collateral management agreement with our Investment Adviser, whereby GF 2013-2 Manager delegated certain of its obligations and duties under the collateral management agreement to our Investment Adviser. The sub-collateral manager, which is our Investment Adviser, is a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act. GF 2013-2 Manager, as collateral manager, on behalf of the CLO, has broad authority to direct and supervise the investment and reinvestment of the investments held by the CLO, which may include exercising or enforcing, or refraining from exercising or enforcing, any or all of the CLO’s rights in connection with the execution of amendments, waivers, modifications and other changes to the investment documentation in accordance with the collateral management agreement, and subject to the right of the Controlling Class to consent to certain amendments. During periods of economic uncertainty and recession, the incidence of amendments, waivers, modifications and restructurings of investments may increase. Such amendments, waivers, modifications and other restructurings will change the terms of the investments and in some cases may result in the CLO holding assets not meeting its criteria for investments. This could adversely impact the coverage tests under the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. Any amendment, waiver, modification or other restructuring that reduces the CLO’s compliance with certain financial tests will make it more likely that the CLO will need to utilize cash to pay down the unpaid principal amount of the Secured Notes to cure any breach in such test instead of making payments on the Retained Notes. Any such use of cash would reduce distributions available and delay the timing of payments to us. We cannot assure you that any particular restructuring strategy pursued by GF 2013-2 Manager or any successor collateral manager will maximize the value of or recovery on any investment. Any restructuring can fundamentally alter the nature of the related investment, and restructurings are not subject to the same underwriting standards that are employed in connection with the origination or acquisition of investments. Any restructuring could alter, reduce or delay the payment of interest or principal on any investment, which could delay the timing and reduce the amount of payments made to us. Restructurings of investments might also result in extensions of the term thereof, which could delay the timing of payments made to us. We may not receive cash from the CLO. We receive cash from the CLO only to the extent that we receive payments on the Retained Notes. The CLO may make payments on such notes only to the extent permitted by the payment priority provisions of the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. This indenture generally provides that principal payments on the Retained Notes may not be made on any payment date unless all amounts owing under the Class A Notes and Class B Notes are paid in full. In addition, if the CLO does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the CLO, cash would be diverted from the ordinary priority of payments to first make payments on the Secured Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied. In the event that we fail to receive cash from the CLO, we could be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. We also could be forced to sell investments in portfolio companies or the notes that we own at less than their fair value in order to continue making such distributions. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS The CLO depends on the managerial expertise available to the collateral manager and its key personnel. The CLO’s activities are directed by GF 2013-2 Manager or any successor collateral manager. GF 2013-2 Manager has retained the Investment Adviser to furnish collateral management sub-advisory services. In our capacity as holder of the Retained Notes, we are generally not able to make decisions with respect to the management, disposition or other realization of any investment, or other decisions regarding the business and affairs of the CLO. Consequently, the success of the CLO will depend, in large part, on the financial and managerial expertise of the collateral manager’s investment professionals. There can be no assurance that such investment professionals will continue to serve in their current positions or continue to be authorized persons of the collateral manager. Although such investment professionals will devote such time as they determine in their discretion is reasonably necessary to fulfill the collateral manager’s obligations to the CLO effectively, they will not devote all of their professional time to the affairs of the CLO. Our ability to transfer the Retained Notes is limited. The notes issued by the CLO are illiquid investments and subject to extensive transfer restrictions, and no party is under any obligation to make a market for the notes. There is no market for the notes, and we may not be able to sell or otherwise transfer the Retained Notes at their fair value, or at all, in the event that we determine to sell them. During economic downturns, notes issued in securitization transactions may experience high volatility and significant fluctuations in market value. Additionally, some potential buyers of such notes now view securitization products as an inappropriate investment, thereby reducing the number of potential buyers and/or potentially affecting liquidity in the secondary market. We may not be able to redeem the Secured Notes prior to September 25, 2015. Under the terms of the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO, we are not permitted to redeem the Secured Notes until September 25, 2015 unless S&P withdraws its ratings on the Secured Notes. This provision will limit our ability to refinance the Secured Notes until September 25, 2015, which may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive changes in interest rates, if any. This, in turn, could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other lenders or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The holders of the Class A-1R Notes may fail to advance funds to us as required. If a holder of a Class A-1R Note should fail to advance funds to us in a timely manner as required under the documents governing the CLO, we may be forced to obtain alternative sources of liquidity, including by selling assets or seeking new credit arrangements. If we are unable to find such sources of liquidity, we may be unable to fund obligations to our portfolio companies or be forced to break trades that have been entered into but not yet settled, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, cause portfolio companies to seek recourse against us, including litigation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The CLO may be required to redeem the Secured Notes upon the occurrence of certain tax events. In certain circumstances, we or a majority of the holders of any class of Secured Notes that has not received 100% of the principal and interest that would otherwise be due and payable to such class on any quarterly payment date can require the CLO to redeem the Secured Notes in whole in the event that any U.S. or foreign tax statute or treaty requires withholding of more than 5% of the scheduled payments by the CLO on any date or any jurisdiction imposes a net income, profits or similar tax on the CLO in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000 in any quarter. This could cause the CLO to sell all or a portion of its investments in order to fund the necessary redemption, including on unfavorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of a court to enforce certain non-petition obligations may adversely affect us. Each holder of Secured Notes has agreed, and each beneficial owner of Secured Notes will be deemed to agree, that it will not cause the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against, or present a winding up action petition in respect of, the CLO for at least 366 days after payment in full of the Secured Notes. If such 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS provision is determined to be unenforceable under applicable bankruptcy laws or is violated by one or more holders of Secured Notes, then the applicable court could liquidate the CLO’s assets without regard to the voting instructions of the Controlling Class. Any such liquidation of the CLO’s assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The CLO is subject to various conflicts of interest involving Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas is the trustee and custodian with respect to the indenture governing the notes issued by the CLO. Various potential and actual conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the investment banking, commercial banking, asset management, financing and financial advisory services and products provided by affiliates of Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, or, collectively, the Deutsche Bank Companies, to us and the CLO. When acting in service capacities with respect to investments held by the CLO, the Deutsche Bank Companies are entitled to fees and expenses senior in priority to payments to the distributions on our equity interests in the CLO. In addition, the Deutsche Bank Companies may act as trustee for other classes of securities issued by one of our portfolio companies or make or administer loans to such portfolio companies and would owe fiduciary duties to the holders of such other classes of securities, which classes of securities may have differing interests from us, and may take actions that are adverse to us, including restructuring a loan, exercising remedies under a loan, foreclosing on collateral, requiring additional collateral, charging significant fees or placing the obligor in bankruptcy. The Deutsche Bank Companies might act as a counterparty under swaps or any other derivative agreements for transactions involving issuers of investments held by the CLO and could take actions adverse to the interests of the CLO, including demanding collateralization of its exposure under such agreements (if provided for thereunder) or terminating such swaps or agreements in accordance with the terms thereof. As a result of all such transactions or arrangements between the Deutsche Bank Companies and issuers of investments held by the CLO or their respective affiliates, the Deutsche Bank Companies may have interests that are contrary to the interests of the CLO. Since we are using debt to finance our investments, and we may use additional debt financing going forward, changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Since we are using debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we cannot assure you that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our investments will be financed primarily with equity and medium to long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. These activities may limit our ability to benefit from lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee Hurdle Rate and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser with respect to Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income. In addition, a decline in the prices of the debt due to rising market interest rates not reflected in such debt investments we own could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our net asset value. We are subject to risks associated with the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes. As a result of the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes we are subject to certain risks, including those set forth below. We may not receive cash from GLC Trust 2013-2. We receive cash from GLC Trust 2013-2 only to the extent that dividends on our equity interests are approved by the securities administrator under the indenture governing the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes. In 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS addition, in the event that GLC Trust 2013-2 fails to receive cash from its underlying portfolio of consumer loans, it could be unable to service the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes as required under the indenture. If GLC Trust 2013-2 fails to meet certain portfolio and other covenants as set forth in the indenture, the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes may be immediately terminated and all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance the GLC Trust 2013-2 Notes at such time or otherwise be able to satisfy the obligations thereunder, particularly if the quality of the underlying portfolio of consumer loans has deteriorated since the time of their acquisition. We may not replicate the historical results achieved by other entities managed or sponsored by members of our investment committee or by Garrison Investment Group or its affiliates. Our primary focus in making investments generally differs from that of many of the investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of our investment committee or sponsored by Garrison Investment Group or its affiliates. In addition, investors in our common stock do not acquire an interest in any such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of our investment committee or sponsored by Garrison Investment Group or its affiliates. We cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by members of the investment committee, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. Additionally, all or a portion of the prior results may have been achieved in particular market conditions which may never be repeated. Moreover, current or future market volatility and regulatory uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our future performance. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns. As a result of our arrangements with Garrison Investment Group and our investment committee, there may be times when Garrison Investment Group or such persons have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest. There may be conflicts related to obligations our investment committee, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates have to other clients. The members of our investment committee serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates. Similarly, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may have other clients with similar, different or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the members of our investment committee have, and will continue to have, management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates, including entities that may raise additional capital from time to time. Our investment objective overlaps or may overlap with the investment objectives of such affiliated investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by or affiliated with our Investment Adviser. Our Investment Adviser will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with the written allocation policy of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliated investment advisers, including our Investment Adviser. However, we cannot assure you that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. Where we are able to co-invest consistent with the requirements of the 1940 Act, if sufficient securities or loan amounts are available to satisfy our and each such account’s proposed demand, we expect that the opportunity will be allocated in accordance with our Investment Adviser’s pre-transaction determination. If there is an insufficient amount of an investment opportunity to satisfy our demand and that of other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and such other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on each account’s available capital in the asset class being allocated, up to the amount proposed to be invested by each account. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all suitable investment opportunities. Where we are unable to co-invest consistent with the 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS requirements of the 1940 Act, our Investment Adviser’s allocation policy provides for investments to be allocated on a rotational basis to assure that all clients have fair and equitable access to such investment opportunities. Our investment committee, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. Principals of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates and members of our investment committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. If we obtain material nonpublic information with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for our Investment Adviser that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders and may induce our Investment Adviser to make speculative investments. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to our Investment Adviser. The incentive fee payable by us to our Investment Adviser may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The management fee is based on our gross assets excluding cash and cash equivalents. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because the management fee is based on our gross assets, our Investment Adviser will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. The use of leverage increases the likelihood of default, which disfavors the holders of our common stock. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, our Investment Adviser may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because our Investment Adviser determines when a holding is sold, our Investment Adviser controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how our Investment Adviser addresses these and other conflicts of interest associated with its management services and compensation. While they are not expected to review or approve each investment or realization, our independent directors will periodically review our Investment Adviser’s services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether such fees and our expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no Hurdle Rate applicable to the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Investment Adviser may seek to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. In addition, under the terms of the Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism, the amount of incentive fees earned by our Investment Adviser will depend, in part, upon the timing of capital gains or losses in our investment portfolio, as well as the timing of our recognition of income. Depending on the circumstances, there may be a lag of as long as 12 fiscal quarters between the occurrence of an event giving rise to an obligation to pay incentive fees to the Investment Adviser and the payment of such incentive fees. Therefore, investors who acquire our shares of common stock may pay indirectly to our Investment Adviser incentive fees in respect of income or capital gains that were received by or paid to us prior to such investor becoming a stockholder. As a result, such investors may not participate in the income or capital gains giving rise to such indirect expense. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. We expect to make many portfolio investments in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors determines the fair value of these securities in good faith. In connection with that 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS determination, investment professionals from our Investment Adviser provide our board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, including Messrs. Astruc, Chase and Tansey, have an indirect pecuniary interest in our Investment Adviser. The participation of our Investment Adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in our Investment Adviser by certain members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the management fee paid to our Investment Adviser is based, in part, on our gross assets. We have conflicts related to other arrangements with our Investment Adviser or its affiliates. We have entered into the License Agreement with Garrison Investment Group under which Garrison Investment Group has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “Garrison”. In addition, we pay to Garrison Capital Administrator our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Garrison Capital Administrator in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This creates conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. The Investment Advisory Agreement with Garrison Capital Advisers, the Administration Agreement with Garrison Capital Administrator and the sub-collateral management agreement between GF 2013-2 Manager and Garrison Capital Advisers were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The Investment Advisory Agreement, the Administration Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to our Investment Adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Investment Adviser, our Administrator, the collateral manager and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our stockholders. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, or entering into certain “joint” transactions (which could include investments in the same portfolio company) with such affiliates, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. Our Investment Adviser and its affiliates, including persons that control, or are under common control with, us or our Investment Adviser, are also considered to be our affiliates under the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, or entering into “joint” transactions with such affiliates without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, additional exemptive relief from the SEC. We may, however, invest alongside other clients of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law, SEC staff interpretations and/or exemptive relief issued by the SEC. For example, we may invest alongside such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the staff of the SEC permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that our Investment Adviser, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also invest alongside our Investment Adviser’s other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations, the terms of our exemptive relief and the written allocation policy of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliated investment advisers, including our Investment Adviser. Under this allocation policy, a fixed calculation, based on the type of investment, will be applied to determine the amount of each opportunity to be allocated to us. This allocation policy will be periodically approved by our Investment Adviser and reviewed by our independent directors. We expect that these determinations will be made similarly for other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. If sufficient securities or loan amounts are available to satisfy our and each such account’s proposed demand, we 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS expect that the opportunity will be allocated in accordance with our Investment Adviser’s pre-transaction determination. Where there is an insufficient amount of an investment opportunity to satisfy us and other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and such other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on each account’s available capital in the asset class being allocated, up to the amount proposed to be invested by each account. However, we cannot assure you that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. We, Garrison Investment Group and our Investment Adviser have received exemptive relief to permit greater flexibility to negotiate the terms of co-investments if our board of directors determines that it would be advantageous for us to co-invest with other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions, as well as regulatory requirements and other relevant factors. See “Related Party Transactions — Certain Relationships.” We cannot assure you, however, that we will develop opportunities that comply with such limitations. In situations where co-investment with other accounts managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, Garrison Investment Group and our Investment Adviser must decide which client will proceed with the investment. The written allocation policy of Garrison Investment Group and its affiliated investment advisers, including our Investment Adviser, in such circumstances, for investments to be allocated on a rotational basis to assure that all clients have fair and equitable access to such investment opportunities. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we are unable to invest in any issuer in which a fund managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. Our Investment Adviser may be paid incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss, and we cannot recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. Our Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income, subject to the Hurdle Rate, a catch-up provision and the Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism. Our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss. In addition, if we pay the capital gains portion of the incentive fee and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. Our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio investments will take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. As discussed in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies,” all of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Financial Accounting 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, or ASC Topic 820. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of several independent service providers to review the valuation of these securities. To the extent a security is reviewed in a particular quarter, it is reviewed and valued by only one service provider. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities, including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. In addition, the determination of fair value and thus the amount of unrealized losses we may incur in any year, is, to a degree, subjective, in that it is based on unobservable inputs and certain assumptions. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these investments are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors under our valuation policy and process. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments: • a comparison of the portfolio company’s securities to publicly traded securities; • the enterprise value of the portfolio company; • the nature and realizable value of any collateral; • the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings; • the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and • changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt securities and loans we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of the recognition of, realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure proceedings and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into additional jurisdictions, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we or our portfolio companies are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, became law. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several years. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. While the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose any licenses that we then hold for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of our Investment Adviser to other types of investments in which our Investment Adviser may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may engage in currency or interest rate hedging transactions to the extent such transactions are permitted under the 1940 Act and applicable commodities law. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions, including the risk of counterparty default. In this regard, we may utilize instruments such as futures, forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for us to realize a gain on a net basis if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Currently, we do not hold any securities denominated in foreign currencies and do not hedge any foreign currency exposure. While we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates or counterparty default may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge position and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities may also fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects of any such changes may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions. Our business depends on the communications and information systems of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Any failure or interruption of such systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions to our securityholders. We may not be approved for an SBIC license. We have applied for a license to form an SBIC. If such an application is approved and the SBA so permits, we anticipate that the SBIC license would be transferred to a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours that would be formed just prior to such transfer. Following such transfer, we anticipate that the SBIC subsidiary would be allowed to issue SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to the required capitalization of the SBIC subsidiary. SBA guaranteed debentures carry long-term fixed rates that are generally lower than rates on comparable bank and other debt. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in receiving an SBIC license from the SBA or that the SBA will permit such license to be transferred to us. If we do receive an SBIC license, there is no minimum amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that must be allocated to us. Risks Related to our Investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest primarily in (1) first lien senior secured loans, (2) second lien senior secured loans, (3) “one-stop” senior secured or “unitranche” loans, (4) subordinated or mezzanine loans, (5) unsecured consumer loans and (6), to a lesser extent, selected equity co-investments in middle-market companies. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Secured Loans. When we extend first lien senior secured, second lien senior secured and unitranche loans, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. We expect this security interest to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in the case of first lien senior secured loans, our lien may be subordinated to claims of other creditors and, in the case of second lien senior secured loans, our lien will be subordinated to claims of certain other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Unsecured Consumer Loans. Our consumer loans are unsecured. This may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or a loss of principal. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. See “— We are subject to risks associated with unsecured consumer loans.” Mezzanine Loans. Our mezzanine investments generally are subordinated to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or a loss of principal. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income as described above under “—We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.” Since we will not receive any substantial repayments of principal prior to the maturity of our mezzanine debt investments, such investments are riskier than amortizing loans. Equity Investments. We may make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in first lien, second lien, unitranche or mezzanine loans, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We are subject to risks associated with middle-market companies. Investing in middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies; • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code and the requirements under the documents governing the CLO, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which would subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly and adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. We may hold the debt securities and loans of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by a portfolio company may adversely and permanently affect such portfolio company. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of our investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until a plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial, eroding the value of any recovery by holders of other securities of the bankrupt entity. Depending on the facts and circumstances of our investments and the extent of our involvement in the management of a portfolio company, upon the bankruptcy of a portfolio company, a bankruptcy court may recharacterize our debt investments as equity interests and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could occur even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity, and rising interests rates may make it more difficult for portfolio companies to make periodic payments on their loans. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity. This risk and the risk of default is increased to the extent that the loan documents do not require the portfolio companies to pay down the outstanding principal of such debt prior to maturity. In addition, if general interest rates rise, there is a risk that our portfolio companies will be unable to pay escalating interest amounts, which could result in a default under their loan documents with us. Rising interests rates could also cause portfolio companies to shift cash from other productive uses to the payment of interest, which may have a material adverse effect on their business and operations and could, over time, lead to increased defaults. Any failure of one or more portfolio companies to repay or refinance its debt at or prior to maturity or the inability of one or more portfolio companies to make ongoing payments following an increase in contractual interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Furthermore, if one of our portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, even though we may have structured our investment as senior secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors. We may be subject to risks associated with syndicated loans. Under the documentation for syndicated loans, a financial institution or other entity typically is designated as the administrative agent and/or collateral agent. This agent is granted a lien on any collateral on behalf of the other lenders and distributes payments on the indebtedness as they are received. The agent is the party responsible for administering and enforcing the loan and generally may take actions only in accordance with the instructions of a majority or two-thirds in commitments and/or principal amount of the associated indebtedness. In most cases, we do not expect to hold a sufficient amount of the indebtedness to be able to compel any actions by the agent. Consequently, we would only be able to direct such actions if instructions from us were made in conjunction with other holders of associated indebtedness that together with us compose the requisite percentage of the related indebtedness then entitled to take action. Conversely, if holders of the required amount of the associated indebtedness other than us desire to take certain actions, such actions may be taken even if we did not support such actions. Furthermore, if an investment is subordinated to one or more senior loans made to the applicable obligor, the ability of us to exercise such rights may be subordinated to the exercise of such rights by the senior lenders. Accordingly, we may be precluded from 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS directing such actions unless we act together with other holders of the indebtedness. If we are unable to direct such actions, we cannot assure you that the actions taken will be in our best interests. If an investment is a syndicated revolving loan or delayed drawdown loan, other lenders may fail to satisfy their full contractual funding commitments for such loan, which could create a breach of contract, result in a lawsuit by the obligor against the lenders and adversely affect the fair market value of our investment. There is a risk that a loan agent may become bankrupt or insolvent. Such an event would delay, and possibly impair, any enforcement actions undertaken by holders of the associated indebtedness, including attempts to realize upon the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and/or direct the agent to take actions against the related obligor or the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and actions to realize on proceeds of payments made by obligors that are in the possession or control of any other financial institution. In addition, we may be unable to remove the agent in circumstances in which removal would be in our best interests. Moreover, agented loans typically allow for the agent to resign with certain advance notice. We are subject to risks associated with unsecured consumer loans. Investing in unsecured consumer loans involves a number of significant risks, including those set forth below. Unsecured consumer loans are not secured by any collateral or guaranteed or insured by any third party, and we must rely on our third party servicer(s) to pursue collection against any borrower. Unsecured consumer loans are unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed or insured by any third party or backed by any governmental authority in any way. We must rely on our third party servicer(s) to pursue collection against any borrower if an event of default occurs. We may acquire consumer loans from borrowers who have tarnished credit ratings or limited credit history, are considered higher than average credit risks, and may present a higher risk of loan delinquency or default. We may acquire consumer loans from borrowers who have below prime or tarnished credit ratings, which is traditionally defined as a FICO below 640 or limited credit history. Loans may be offered to such borrowers when there is reason to believe that the risk profile of such loans is such that their loss rates fall within the loss rate range expected under the current underwriting policies. However, these borrowers still may present a higher risk of loan delinquency or default than prime borrowers. We do not have significant historical performance data about performance on the consumer loans. Loss rates on the consumer loans may increase. Consumer lending platforms from which we may acquire unsecured consumer loans are in the early stages of their development and have limited operating histories. The performance of consumer loans purchased to date may not be indicative of the future performance of consumer loans. Due to the limited operational history of consumer lending platforms, we do not have significant historical data regarding the performance of the consumer loans, and we do not yet know what our long-term loan loss experience will be. Loss rates on the consumer loans may increase as a result of economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of the borrower. Borrower loan loss rates may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual borrowers. In particular, loss rates on consumer loans may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, residential real estate values, the value of the U.S. dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer spending, the number of personal bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in mezzanine loans or senior secured loans, we may also invest in the equity securities of the borrower or acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of such equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio, and our ability to make follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies may be restricted. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: • increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; • exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or • attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources, the limitations of the 1940 Act and the requirements associated with our status as a RIC. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful portfolio company. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our exposure to the portfolio company, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we will not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We do not currently anticipate taking controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities or loans. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and we may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We generally intend to invest a portion of our capital in first lien, second lien and unitranche loans and, to a lesser extent, mezzanine loans and equity securities of U.S. middle-market companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have sufficient assets to use for repaying its obligation to us in full, or at all. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second-priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first-priority liens on the collateral secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first-priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation depends on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurances that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first-priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first-priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first-priority liens: • the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; • the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; • the approval of amendments to collateral documents; • releases of liens on the collateral; and • waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any security interest over the assets of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies’ assets, if any, will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Investment Adviser’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Investment Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement, our Investment Adviser does not assume any responsibility to us, including GF 2013-2 Manager other than to render the services called for under those agreements, and it is not responsible for any action of our board of directors or GF 2013-2 Manager, as applicable, in following or declining to follow our Investment Adviser’s advice or recommendations. Our Investment Adviser maintains a contractual and fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement, our Investment Adviser, its officers, members, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by our Investment Adviser are not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of our Investment Adviser’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Investment Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement. These protections may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce our yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. The loans in our investment portfolio generally are prepayable at any time, some of which have no premium to par. It is not clear at this time when each loan may be prepaid. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan prepaid may reduce the achievable yield for us if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. We currently expect that a significant portion of our investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. Provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the rights of our common stockholders. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, contains provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers. These provisions and others also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS or delaying changes in control or management. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, the application of which is subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. If our board of directors does not approve a business combination, Section 203 of the DGCL may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our preferred stock in one or more classes or series and to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, if we issue preferred stock, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred stockholders having separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights, and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Our Investment Adviser can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Investment Adviser has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Investment Adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new Investment Adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Administrator can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Administrator has the right, under the Administration Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Administrator resigns, we may not be able to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by our Administrator. Even if we are able to retain a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our operations may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS Investments in securities of foreign companies, if any, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. We may make investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, any investments that we make that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules implemented by the SEC. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we do not know if such status will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act until the earliest of: • the last day of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018; • the last day of the fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues first exceed $1 billion; • the date on which we have, during the prior three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and • the last day of a fiscal year in which we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more, computed at the end of each fiscal year as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) have been an Exchange Act reporting company for at least one year (and filed at least one annual report under the Exchange Act). We are taking advantage of some of the reduced regulatory and disclosure requirements permitted by the JOBS Act and, as a result, some investors may consider our common stock less attractive, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. For example, while we are an emerging growth company, we are taking advantage of exemption from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This may increase the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected. See “Business — Regulation — JOBS Act.” Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, we are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC and, under the JOBS Act, beginning with the first fiscal year in which we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm must audit this report. We are required to review 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses in the near term that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also will result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, often trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. If we declare a dividend and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash dividend payments. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of the companies; • changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs and business development companies; • loss of our qualification as a RIC or business development company; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio investments; 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of Garrison Capital Advisers’ or any of its affiliates’ key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Our stockholders could experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan. All dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan could experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time if we issue additional shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 