Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business We have limited proved reserves and areas that we decide to drill may not yield oil and natural gas in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. We have limited proved reserves. The majority of our oil and natural gas portfolio consists of discoveries without approved PoDs and with limited well penetrations, as well as identified yet unproven prospects based on available seismic and geological information that indicates the potential presence of hydrocarbons. However, the areas we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Most of our current discoveries and prospects are in various stages of evaluation that will require substantial additional analysis and interpretation. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Accordingly, we do not know if any of our discoveries or prospects will contain oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if oil or natural gas is found on our discoveries or prospects in commercial quantities, construction costs of gathering lines, subsea infrastructure and floating production systems and transportation costs may prevent such discoveries or prospects from being economically viable, and approval of PoDs by various regulatory authorities, a necessary step in order to designate a discovery as "commercial," may not be forthcoming. Additionally, the analogies drawn by us using available data from other wells, more fully explored discoveries or producing fields may not prove valid with respect to our drilling prospects. We may terminate our drilling program for a discovery or prospect if data, information, studies and previous reports indicate that the possible development of a discovery or prospect is not commercially viable and, therefore, does not merit further investment. If a significant number of our discoveries or prospects do not prove to be successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The deepwater offshore Ghana, an area in which we focus a substantial amount of our exploration, appraisal and development efforts, has only recently been considered potentially economically viable for hydrocarbon production due to the costs and difficulties involved in drilling for oil at such depths and the relatively recent discovery of commercial quantities of oil in the region. Likewise, our onshore Cameroon and deepwater offshore Morocco and Suriname prospects have not yet proved to be economically viable production areas, as to date we do not have a commercially viable discovery or production in either of these regions. We have limited proved reserves, and we may not be successful in developing additional commercially viable production from our other discoveries and prospects. We face substantial uncertainties in estimating the characteristics of our unappraised discoveries and our prospects. In this report we provide numerical and other measures of the characteristics, including with regard to size and quality, of our discoveries and prospects. These measures may be incorrect, as the accuracy of these measures is a function of available data, geological interpretation and judgment. To date, a limited number of our prospects have been drilled. Any analogies drawn by us from other wells, 46 Table of Contents discoveries or producing fields may not prove to be accurate indicators of the success of developing proved reserves from our discoveries and prospects. Furthermore, we have no way of evaluating the accuracy of the data from analog wells or prospects produced by other parties which we may use. It is possible that few or none of our wells to be drilled will find accumulations of hydrocarbons in commercial quality or quantity. Any significant variance between actual results and our assumptions could materially affect the quantities of hydrocarbons attributable to any particular prospect. Drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may be more than we estimate, and may not result in any discoveries or additions to our future production or reserves. Any material inaccuracies in drilling costs, estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect our business. Exploring for and developing hydrocarbon reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The budgeted costs of planning, drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of oilfield equipment and related services or unanticipated geologic conditions. Before a well is spud, we incur significant geological and geophysical (seismic) costs, which are incurred whether a well eventually produces commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, or is drilled at all. Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geologic conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. In the past we have experienced unsuccessful drilling efforts, having drilled dry holes. Furthermore, the successful drilling of a well does not necessarily result in the commercially viable development of a field. A variety of factors, including geologic and market-related, can cause a field to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Many of our prospects that may be developed require significant additional exploration, appraisal and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. The successful drilling of a single well may not be indicative of the potential for the development of a commercially viable field. In Africa and South America, we face higher above-ground risks necessitating higher expected returns, the requirement for increased capital expenditures due to a general lack of infrastructure and underdeveloped oil and gas industries, and increased transportation expenses due to geographic remoteness, which either require a single well to be exceptionally productive, or the existence of multiple successful wells, to allow for the development of a commercially viable field. See "—Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate." Furthermore, if our actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than our estimated costs, we may not be able to continue our business operations as proposed and could be forced to modify our plan of operation. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management team has identified and scheduled drilling locations on our license areas over a multi-year period. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of equipment and capital, approval by block partners and regulators, seasonal conditions, oil prices, assessment of risks, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any of these locations will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this report as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our established drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or at all or if we will be able to economically produce hydrocarbons from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may be materially different from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 47 Table of Contents Under the terms of our various license agreements, we are contractually obligated to drill wells and declare any discoveries in order to retain exploration and production rights. In the competitive market for our license areas, failure to declare any discoveries and thereby establish development areas may result in substantial license renewal costs or loss of our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license areas, which may include certain of our prospects. In order to protect our exploration and production rights in our license areas, we must meet various drilling and declaration requirements. In general, unless we make and declare discoveries within certain time periods specified in our various petroleum agreements and licenses, our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license areas may lapse. Should the prospects we have identified in this report under the license agreements currently in place yield discoveries, we cannot assure you that we will not face delays in drilling these prospects or otherwise have to relinquish these prospects. The costs to maintain licenses over such areas may fluctuate and may increase significantly since the original term, and we may not be able to renew or extend such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our actual drilling activities may therefore materially differ from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. Regarding our licenses in Ghana, the WCTP PA extends for a period of 30 years from its effective date (July 2004); however, in July 2011, the WCTP Relinquishment Area was subject to relinquishment. We and our WCTP Block partners have certain rights to negotiate a new petroleum contract with respect to the WCTP Relinquishment Area. In July 2010, we and our WCTP Block partners exercised our right to negotiate a new petroleum contract and formally submitted a proposed new petroleum agreement for the WCTP Relinquishment Area in early 2011. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating a new petroleum agreement or choose to not match a bona fide third party offer for the WCTP Relinquishment Area, the identified prospects within the WCTP Block will not be able to be drilled by us. Further, if we are able to negotiate a new petroleum agreement or match a bona fide third party offer, we cannot assure you that any such new agreement will either be entered into or be on the same terms as the current WCTP PA. The DT PA also extends for a period of 30 years from its effective date and contains similar relinquishment provisions to the WCTP PA, but with the end of the seven year exploration phase occurring in January 2013. We and our DT Block partners have certain rights of first refusal for the granting of a new petroleum agreement with respect to the DT Relinquishment Area. We exercised such right in June 2011. If we are unable to negotiate a new petroleum agreement or we choose to not match a bona fide third party offer for the DT Relinquishment Area, the identified prospects within the DT PA Block will not be able to be drilled by us. Further, if we are able to negotiate a new petroleum agreement or match a bona fide third party offer, we cannot assure you that any such new agreement will either be entered into or be on the same terms as the current DT PA. Regarding our license in Cameroon, the exploration period for the Ndian River license will expire on November 20, 2012. Kosmos is required to drill one well before the expiration of this renewal period. Failure to do so may result in our loss of the license. Regarding our recently acquired petroleum contract in Cameroon, the Fako Block, the initial exploration period will expire on January 13, 2014. Under this petroleum contract, we have work commitments to perform exploration activities and other related activities totaling $2.1 million. Failure to do so may result in our loss of the license. Regarding our licenses in Suriname, under the production sharing contract covering Block 42, effective December 13, 2011, Kosmos is obligated during the initial four year exploration phase to conduct certain studies, reprocess existing 2D seismic; acquire, process and interpret 1,400 kilometers of 2D seismic; and acquire, process and interpret 500 square kilometers of 3D seismic. Under the production sharing contract covering Block 45, effective December 13, 2011, Kosmos is obligated during the initial three year exploration phase to conduct certain studies; reprocess existing 2D seismic; 48 Table of Contents and acquire, process and interpret 1,000 kilometers of 3D seismic. Failure to complete such requirements may result in our loss of these licenses. We are currently in the initial exploration phase for our petroleum contracts in Morocco. The Cap Boujdour Offshore Block, Essaouira Offshore Block, and the Foum Assaka Offshore Block expire on March 1, 2013, April 21, 2014, and January 1, 2014, respectively. Under these petroleum contracts, we have work commitments to perform exploration activities and other related activities totaling $12.5 million. Failure to do so may result in our loss of the license. For each of our license areas, we cannot assure you that any renewals or extensions will be granted or whether any new agreements will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or, in some cases, at all. For additional detail regarding the status of our operations with respect to our various licenses, please see "Item 1. Business—Our Geographic Areas of Operation." The inability of one or more third parties who contract with us to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We may be liable for certain costs if third parties who contract with us are unable to meet their commitments under such agreements. We are currently exposed to credit risk through joint interest receivables from our block and/or unit partners. If any of our partners in the blocks or unit in which we hold interests are unable to fund their share of the exploration and development expenses, we may be liable for such costs. In the past, certain of our WCTP and DT Block partners have not paid their share of block costs in the time frame required by the joint operating agreements for these blocks. This has resulted in such party being in default, which in return requires Kosmos and its non-defaulting block partners to pay their proportionate share of the defaulting party's costs during the default period. Should a default not be cured, Kosmos could be required to pay its share of the defaulting party's costs going forward. Our principal exposure to credit risk will be through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil, which we plan to market to energy marketing companies and refineries, and to cover our commodity derivatives contracts. The inability or failure of our significant customers or counter-parties to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, our oil and natural gas derivative arrangements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Joint interest receivables arise from our block partners. The inability or failure of third parties we contract with to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. The unit partners' respective interests in the Jubilee Unit are subject to redetermination and our interests in such unit may decrease as a result. The interests in and development of the Jubilee Field are governed by the terms of the UUOA. The parties to the UUOA, the collective interest holders in each of the WCTP and DT Blocks, initially agreed that interests in the Jubilee Unit will be shared equally, with each block deemed to contribute 50% of the area of such unit. The respective interests in the Jubilee Unit were therefore initially determined by the respective interests in such contributed block interests. Pursuant to the terms of the UUOA, the percentage of such contributed interests is subject to a process of redetermination once sufficient development work has been completed in the unit. The initial redetermination process was completed on October 14, 2011. As a result of the initial redetermination process, the tract participation was determined to be 54.36660% for the WCTP Block and 45.63340% for the DT Block. Our Unit Interest (participating interest in the Jubilee Unit) was increased from 23.50868% (our percentage after Tullow's acquisition of EO Group's interest in July 2011) to 24.07710%. A second redetermination could occur sometime after December 31, 2013, if requested by a party that holds greater than a 10% interest in the unit. We cannot assure you that any redetermination pursuant to the 49 Table of Contents terms of the UUOA will not negatively affect our interests in the Jubilee Unit or that such redetermination will be satisfactorily resolved. We are not, and may not be in the future, the operator on all of our license areas and do not, and may not in the future, hold all of the working interests in certain of our license areas. Therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated and to an extent, any non-wholly owned, assets. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we have arrangements with respect to existing license areas and may have agreements with respect to future license areas that result in a greater proportion of our license areas being operated by others. Currently, we are not the Unit Operator on the Jubilee Field and do not hold operatorship in one of our two blocks offshore Ghana (the DT Block). In addition, the terms of the UUOA governing the unit partners' interests in the Jubilee Field require certain actions be approved by at least 80% of the unit voting interests and the terms of our other current or future license or venture agreements may require at least the majority of working interests to approve certain actions. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the discoveries or prospects operated by our block or unit partners, or which are not wholly owned by us, as the case may be. Dependence on block or unit partners could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those discoveries or prospects. Further, because we do not have majority ownership in all of our properties, we may not be able to control the timing of exploration or development activities or the amount of capital expenditures and, therefore, may not be able to carry out one of our key business strategies of minimizing the cycle time between discovery and initial production. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our block partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: •the timing and amount of capital expenditures; •the operator's expertise and financial resources; •approval of other block partners in drilling wells; •the scheduling, pre-design, planning, design and approvals of activities and processes; •selection of technology; and •the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations on some of our license areas may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been, until recently, a development stage entity and our future performance is uncertain. We were a development stage entity until we first generated revenue in early 2011. Development stage entities face substantial business risks and may suffer significant losses. Until recently, we have generated substantial net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since our inception and may continue to incur substantial net losses as we continue our exploration and appraisal program. We face challenges and uncertainties in financial planning as a result of the limited amount of historical data and uncertainties regarding the nature, scope and results of our future activities. As a new public company, we will need to develop additional business relationships, establish additional operating procedures, hire additional staff, and take other measures necessary to conduct our intended business activities. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies or in completing the development of the facilities necessary to conduct our business as planned. In the event that one or more of our drilling programs is not completed, is delayed or terminated, our operating results will be adversely affected and our operations will differ materially from the activities described in this report. 50 Table of Contents There are uncertainties surrounding our future business operations which must be navigated, some of which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is technically complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including those relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. See "Item 1. Business—Our Reserves" for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of discounted future net revenues (as defined herein) as of December 31, 2011. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with the SEC requirements, we have based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months, adjusted for anticipated market premium, without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas assets will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; •actual cost of development and production expenditures; •derivative transactions; •the amount and timing of actual production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas assets will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. 51 Table of Contents Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this report. If oil prices decline by $1.00 per bbl, then the present value of our net revenues at a 10% discount rate ("PV-10") and the Standardized Measure as of December 31, 2011 would each decrease by approximately $19.7 million. See "Item 1. Business—Our Reserves." We are dependent on certain members of our management and technical team. Our performance and success largely depend on the ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of our management and the ability of our technical team to identify, discover, evaluate and develop reserves. The loss or departure of one or more members of our management and technical team could be detrimental to our future success. Additionally, a significant amount of shares in Kosmos held by members of our management and technical team have vested. There can be no assurance that our management and technical team will remain in place. If any of these officers or other key personnel resigns or becomes unable to continue in their present roles and is not adequately replaced, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely effected. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Our business plan requires substantial additional capital, which we may be unable to raise on acceptable terms or at all in the future, which may in turn limit our ability to develop our exploration, appraisal, development and production activities. We expect our capital outlays and operating expenditures to be substantial as we expand our operations. Obtaining seismic data, as well as exploration, appraisal, development and production activities entail considerable costs, and we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital, through additional debt financing, strategic alliances or future private or public equity offerings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the scope, rate of progress and cost of our exploration, appraisal, development and production activities; •oil and natural gas prices; •our ability to locate and acquire hydrocarbon reserves; •our ability to produce oil or natural gas from those reserves; •the terms and timing of any drilling and other production-related arrangements that we may enter into; •the cost and timing of governmental approvals and/or concessions; and •the effects of competition by larger companies operating in the oil and gas industry. We do not currently have any commitments for future external funding beyond the capacity of our commercial debt facility. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we succeed in selling additional securities to raise funds, at such time the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders would be diluted, and new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. If we choose to farm-out interests in our licenses, we would dilute our ownership interest subject to the farm-out and any potential value resulting therefrom, and may lose operating control or influence over such license areas. 52 Table of Contents Assuming we are able to commence exploration, appraisal, development and production activities or successfully exploit our licenses during the exploratory term, our interests in our licenses (or the development/production area of such licenses as they existed at that time, as applicable) could extend beyond such term for a fixed period or life of production, depending on the jurisdiction. If we are unable to meet our well commitments and/or declare commerciality of the prospective areas of our licenses during this time, we may be subject to significant potential forfeiture of all or part of the relevant license interests. If we are not successful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to continue our exploration and production activities or successfully exploit our license areas, and we may lose the rights to develop these areas. See "—Under the terms of our various license agreements, we are contractually obligated to drill wells and declare any discoveries in order to retain exploration and production rights. In the competitive market for our license areas, failure to declare any discoveries and thereby establish development areas may result in substantial license renewal costs or loss of our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license areas, which may include certain of our prospects." A substantial or extended decline in both global and local oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prices that we will receive for our oil and natural gas will significantly affect our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future growth rate. Historically, the oil and natural gas markets have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices that we will receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •changes in supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries; •speculation as to the future price of oil and natural gas and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; •global economic conditions; •political and economic conditions, including embargoes in oil-producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activities, particularly in the Middle East, Africa, Russia and South America; •the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; •the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; •the level of global oil inventories and oil refining capacities; •weather conditions and natural disasters; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; •governmental regulations and taxation policies; •proximity and capacity of transportation facilities; •the price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas; and •the price, availability or mandated use of alternative fuels. Lower oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per share basis but also may reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 53 Table of Contents If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas assets, and such decreases could result in reduced availability under our commercial debt facility. We will review our proved oil and natural gas assets for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of appraisal and development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas assets. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. Redeterminations may occur as a result of a variety of factors, including the commodity price assumptions, assumptions regarding future production from our oil and natural gas assets, operating costs and tax burdens or assumptions concerning our future holdings of proved reserves. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may not be able to commercialize our interests in any natural gas produced from our license areas. The development of the market for natural gas in our license areas is in its early stages. Currently the infrastructure to transport and process natural gas on commercial terms is limited and the expenses associated with constructing such infrastructure ourselves may not be commercially viable given local prices currently paid for natural gas. Accordingly, there may be limited or no value derived from any natural gas produced from our license areas. Our inability to access appropriate equipment and infrastructure in a timely manner may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our oil and natural gas production. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production will depend substantially on the availability and capacity of processing facilities, oil tankers and other infrastructure, including FPSOs, owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such facilities on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We also rely on continuing access to drilling rigs suitable for the environment in which we operate. The delivery of drilling rigs may be delayed or cancelled, and we may not be able to gain continued access to suitable rigs in the future. We may be required to shut in oil wells because of the absence of a market or because access to processing facilities may be limited or unavailable. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the shutting in of wells can lead to mechanical problems upon bringing the production back on line, potentially resulting in decreased production and increased remediation costs. Additionally, the future exploitation and sale of associated and non-associated natural gas and liquids will be subject to timely commercial processing and marketing of these products, which depends on the contracting, financing, building and operating of infrastructure by third parties. The Government of Ghana has announced it will build a gas pipeline from the Jubilee Field to transport such natural gas to the mainland for processing and sale; however, to date, the planning and execution of such pipeline is in its early stages. Even if such pipeline is constructed, it would only give us access to a limited natural gas market. In addition, in connection with the approval of the Jubilee Phase 1 PoD, we granted the first 200 Bcf of natural gas produced from the Jubilee Field Phase 1 development to 54 Table of Contents Ghana at no cost. The Jubilee Phase 1 PoD provided an initial period during commencement of production for which natural gas could be flared. Subsequent to such period, the Jubilee Phase 1 PoD provided that a portion of the natural gas would be reinjected and the balance of the natural gas would be transported to shore via the pipeline to be built. While reinjection improves the recoverability of oil from such reservoirs in the short term, in order to maintain maximum oil production levels, eventually we will need to either flare excess natural gas or otherwise remove it from the reservoirs' production system. We have not been issued a permit from the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency ("Ghana EPA") to flare natural gas produced from the Jubilee Field in the long-term. In the absence of construction of a natural gas pipeline or if we do not receive a permit to flare such natural gas for the long-term prior to reaching the Jubilee Field Phase 1's reinjection capacity, the field's oil production capacity may be adversely affected. We are subject to numerous risks inherent to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities involve many risks that a combination of experience, knowledge and interpretation may not be able to overcome. Our future will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities and on the development of an infrastructure that will allow us to take advantage of our discoveries. Additionally, many of our license areas are located in deepwater, which generally increases the capital and operating costs, chances of delay, planning time, technical challenges and risks associated with oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. As a result, our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore or develop discoveries, prospects or licenses will depend in part on the evaluation of seismic data through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Furthermore, the marketability of expected oil and natural gas production from our discoveries and prospects will also be affected by numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations of prices, proximity, capacity and availability of drilling rigs and related equipment, qualified personnel and support vessels, processing facilities, transportation vehicles and pipelines, equipment availability, access to markets and government regulations (including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, domestic supply requirements, importing and exporting of oil and natural gas, environmental protection and climate change). The effect of these factors, individually or jointly, may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. In the event that our currently undeveloped discoveries and prospects are developed and become operational, they may not produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities or at the costs anticipated, and our projects may cease production, in part or entirely, in certain circumstances. Discoveries may become uneconomic as a result of an increase in operating costs to produce oil and natural gas. Our actual operating costs may differ materially from our current estimates. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental, climate change, health and safety laws and regulations and enforcement policies thereunder and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, delays, an inability to complete the development of our discoveries or the abandonment of such discoveries, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to drilling and other operational environmental hazards. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to: •fires, blowouts, spills, cratering and explosions; •mechanical and equipment problems, including unforeseen engineering complications; 55 Table of Contents •uncontrolled flows or leaks of oil, well fluids, natural gas, brine, toxic gas or other pollution; •gas flaring operations; •marine hazards with respect to offshore operations; •formations with abnormal pressures; •pollution, other environmental risks, and geological problems; and •weather conditions and natural disasters. These risks are particularly acute in deepwater drilling and exploration. Any of these events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental or natural resource damage, impairment, delay or cessation of our operations, adverse publicity, substantial losses and civil or criminal liability. In accordance with customary industry practice, we expect to maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events, whether or not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The development schedule of oil and natural gas projects, including the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services, is subject to delays and cost overruns. Historically, some oil and natural gas development projects have experienced delays and capital cost increases and overruns due to, among other factors, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs and other essential equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services. The cost to develop our projects has not been fixed and remains dependent upon a number of factors, including the completion of detailed cost estimates and final engineering, contracting and procurement costs. Our construction and operation schedules may not proceed as planned and may experience delays or cost overruns. Any delays may increase the costs of the projects, requiring additional capital, and such capital may not be available in a timely and cost-effective fashion. Our offshore and deepwater operations will involve special risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, sinking, collisions and damage or loss to pipeline, subsea or other facilities or from weather conditions. We could incur substantial expenses that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or license acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and license interests. Deepwater exploration generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration in shallower waters. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of equipment failure and usually higher drilling costs. In addition, there may be production risks of which we are currently unaware. If we participate in the development of new subsea infrastructure and use floating production systems to transport oil from producing wells, these operations may require substantial time for installation or encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant liabilities, cost overruns or delays. Furthermore, deepwater operations generally, and operations in Africa and South America in particular, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in other regions. As a result, a significant amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil and natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risks involved with these operations. Because of the lack of and the high cost of this infrastructure, further discoveries we may make in Africa and South America may never be economically producible. 56 Table of Contents We had disagreements with the Republic of Ghana and the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation regarding certain of our rights and responsibilities under the WCTP and DT Petroleum Agreements. All of our proved reserves and our discovered fields are located offshore Ghana. The WCTP PA and the DT PA cover the two blocks that form the basis of our exploration, development and production operations in Ghana. Pursuant to these petroleum agreements, most significant decisions, including our plans for development and annual work programs, must be approved by GNPC and/or Ghana's Ministry of Energy. We have previously had disagreements with the Ministry of Energy and GNPC regarding certain of our rights and responsibilities under these petroleum agreements, the Petroleum Law of 1984 (PNDCL 84) (the "Ghanaian Petroleum Law") and the Internal Revenue Act, 2000 (Act 592) (the "Ghanaian Tax Law"). These included disagreements over sharing information with prospective purchasers of our interests, pledging our interests to finance our development activities, potential liabilities arising from discharges of small quantities of drilling fluids into Ghanaian territorial waters, the failure to approve the proposed sale of our Ghanaian assets and assertions that could be read to give rise to taxes payable under the Ghanaian Tax Law in connection with our IPO. These past disagreements have been resolved. In connection with resolving certain of these disagreements, we entered into a settlement agreement with GNPC and the Government of Ghana in December 2010. As part of such agreement and with respect to one particular issue, we agreed to pay GNPC $8 million upon signing the settlement agreement and $15 million upon the first to occur of certain liquidity events, including the successful completion of our IPO. We issued a Notice of Dispute to the Ministry of Energy and GNPC regarding our right to force majeure protection from an event of Force Majeure that occurred as we were preparing to drill the Cedrela-1 exploration well on the WCTP Block. We continue to discuss this issue so that we may reach an agreement with the Ministry of Energy and GNPC such that we may drill the Cedrela-1 exploration well in 2012. If this dispute is not resolved in our favor, the Cedrela exploration area will become part of the WCTP Relinquishment Area and will be subject to our right to negotiate a new petroleum agreement with respect to the undeveloped parts of the WCTP Block, unless we and our WCTP Block partners do not wish to match any bona fide third party offer received by GNPC; however, we cannot assure you that any such new petroleum agreement will either be entered into or be on the same terms as the current WCTP PA. We also issued a Notice of Dispute to the Ministry of Energy and GNPC regarding the lack of approval of the Mahogany East PoD. We continue to discuss resolution of the PoD with the Ministry of Energy and GNPC. There can be no assurance that future disagreements will not arise with any host government and/or national oil companies that may have a material adverse effect on our exploration or development activities, our ability to operate, our rights under our licenses and local laws or our rights to monetize our interests. The geographic locations of our licenses in Africa and South America subject us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors specifically affecting those areas. Our current exploration licenses are located in Africa and South America. Some or all of these licenses could be affected should either region experience any of the following factors (among others): •severe weather or natural disasters or other acts of God; •delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services; •delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or •military conflicts or civil unrest. 57 Table of Contents For example, oil and natural gas operations in our license areas may be subject to higher political and security risks than those operations under the sovereignty of the United States. We plan to maintain insurance coverage for only a portion of the risks we face from doing business in these regions. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Further, as many of our licenses are concentrated in the same geographic area, a number of our licenses could experience the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of licenses. Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes in energy policies or the personnel administering them), changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign -based companies, expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, revocation of consents or approvals, obtaining various approvals from regulators, foreign exchange restrictions, currency fluctuations, royalty increases and other risks arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty, as well as risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, terrorism, acts of sabotage, territorial disputes and insurrection. In addition, we are subject both to uncertainties in the application of the tax laws in the countries in which we operate and to possible changes in such tax laws (or the application thereof), each of which could result in an increase in our tax liabilities. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which we conduct our activities. Our operations in these areas increase our exposure to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance, expropriation, piracy, tribal conflicts and governmental policies that may: •disrupt our operations; •require us to incur greater costs for security; •restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; •lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; or •limit access to markets for periods of time. Some countries in the geographic areas where we operate have experienced political instability in the past or are currently experiencing instability. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance. Consequently, our offshore exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the United States or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. Our operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the jurisdictions, including Ghana, Cameroon, Morocco, Suriname, the United States, the United Kingdom, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands and other jurisdictions in which we do business, that affect foreign trade and taxation. Changes in any of these laws or policies or the implementation thereof, could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 58 Table of Contents A portion of our asset portfolio is in Western Sahara, and we could be adversely affected by the political, economic and military conditions in that region. Our exploration licenses in this region conflict with exploration licenses issued by the Sahrawai Arab Democratic Republic. Morocco claims the territory of Western Sahara, where our Cap Boujdour Offshore Block is geographically located, as part of the Kingdom of Morocco, and it has de facto administrative control of approximately 80% of Western Sahara. However, Western Sahara is on the United Nations (the "UN") list of Non-Self-Governing territories, and the territory's sovereignty has been in dispute since 1975. The Polisario Front, representing the SADR, has a conflicting claim of sovereignty over Western Sahara. No countries have formally recognized Morocco's claim to Western Sahara, although some countries implicitly support Morocco's position. Other countries have formally recognized the SADR, but the UN has not. A UN-administered cease-fire has been in place since 1991, and while there have been intermittent UN-sponsored talks, between Morocco and SADR (represented by the Polisario), the dispute remains stalemated. It is uncertain when and how Western Sahara's sovereignty issues will be resolved. We own a 75% working interest in the Cap Boujdour Offshore Block located geographically offshore Western Sahara. Our licenses were granted by the government of Morocco; however, the SADR has issued its own offshore exploration licenses which, in some areas, conflict with our licenses. As a result of SADR's conflicting claim of rights to oil and natural gas licenses granted by Morocco, and the SADR's claims that Morocco's exploitation of Western Sahara's natural resources violates international law, our interests could decrease in value or be lost. Any political instability, terrorism, changes in government, or escalation in hostilities involving the SADR, Morocco or neighboring states could adversely affect our operations and assets. In addition, Morocco has recently experienced political and social disturbances that could affect its legal and administrative institutions. A change in U.S. foreign policy or the policies of other countries regarding Western Sahara could also adversely affect our operations and assets. We are not insured against political or terrorism risks because management deems the premium costs of such insurance to be currently prohibitively expensive relative to the limited coverage provided thereby. Furthermore, various activist groups have mounted public relations campaigns to force companies to cease and divest operations in Western Sahara, and we could come under similar public pressure. Some investors have refused to invest in companies with operations in Western Sahara, and we could be subject to similar pressure. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Maritime boundary demarcation between Côte D'Ivoire and Ghana may affect a portion of our license areas. In early 2010, Ghana's western neighbor, the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, petitioned the United Nations to demarcate the Ivorian territorial maritime boundary with Ghana. In response to the petition, Ghana established a Boundary Commission to undertake negotiations in order to determine Ghana's land and maritime boundaries. Ghana has opted out of compulsory dispute settlement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. As such we expect that this matter will likely be resolved via bilateral discussions between the Governments. We understand that such discussions are continuing, although the status and results of these discussions have not been announced and the issue remains unresolved at present. The Ghanaian-Ivorian maritime boundary forms the western boundary of the DT Block offshore Ghana. In September, 2011, the Ivorian Government issued a map reflecting potential petroleum license areas that overlap with the DT Block, although no conflicting licenses have been awarded. Uncertainty remains with regard to the outcome of the boundary demarcation between Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire and we do not know if the maritime boundary will change, therefore affecting our rights to explore and develop our discoveries or prospects within such areas. 59 Table of Contents The oil and gas industry, including the acquisition of exploratory licenses in Africa and South America, is intensely competitive and many of our competitors possess and employ substantially greater resources than us. The international oil and gas industry, including Africa and South America, is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new license areas. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring exploratory licenses and hiring and retaining trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than us, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. These companies may be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drill attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable licenses and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for available capital for investment in the oil and gas industry. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to compete successfully in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to numerous laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to local laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: •licenses for drilling operations; •tax increases, including retroactive claims; •unitization of oil accumulations; •local content requirements (including the mandatory use of local partners and vendors); and •environmental requirements and obligations, including remediation or investigation activities. Under these and other laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change, or their interpretations could change, in ways that could substantially increase our costs. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which we conduct our operations, where there could be a lack of clarity or lack of consistency in the application of these laws and regulations. Any resulting liabilities, penalties, suspensions or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Ghana's Parliament has recently enacted the Petroleum Revenue Management Act and is considering the enactment of a new Petroleum Exploration and Production Act. There can be no assurance that these laws will not seek to retroactively, either on their face or as interpreted, modify the terms of the agreements governing our license interests in Ghana, including the WCTP and DT PAs and the UUOA, require governmental approval for transactions that effect a direct or indirect change of control of our license interests or otherwise affect our current and future operations in Ghana. Any such changes may have a material adverse affect on our business. We also cannot assure you that government approval will not be needed for direct or indirect transfers of our petroleum agreements or interests thereunder based on existing legislation. See "Item 1. Business—Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry—Ghana." 60 Table of Contents Furthermore, the Macondo incident in the Gulf of Mexico may have increased certain of the risks faced by those drilling for oil in deepwater regions, including, without limitation, the following: •increased industry standards, governmental regulation and enforcement of our and our industry's operations in a number of areas, including health and safety, financial responsibility, environmental, licensing, taxation, equipment specifications and training requirements; •increased difficulty or delays in obtaining rights to drill wells in deepwater regions; •higher operating costs; •higher insurance costs and increased potential liability thresholds under environmental laws; •decreased access to appropriate equipment, personnel and infrastructure in a timely manner; •higher capital costs as a result of any increase to the risks we or our industry face; and •less favorable investor perception of the risk-adjusted benefits of deepwater offshore drilling. The occurrence of any of these factors, or the continuation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or future results of operations. We and our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs. We and our operations are subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of regulated materials and the health and safety of our employees. We are required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for our operations, including drilling permits for our wells. We have not been or may not be at all times in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject, and there is a risk that these laws and regulations could change in the future or become more stringent. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of our permits or the suspension or termination of our operations. If we fail to obtain permits in a timely manner or at all (due to opposition from partners, community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays or any other reasons), or if we face additional requirements imposed as a result of changes in or enactment of laws or regulations, such failure to obtain permits or such changes in or enactment of laws could impede or affect our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We, as an interest owner or as the designated operator of certain of our current and future discoveries and prospects, could be held liable for some or all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of our actions and omissions as well as those of our block partners, third-party contractors or other operators. To the extent we do not address these costs and liabilities or if we do not otherwise satisfy our obligations, our operations could be suspended or terminated. We have contracted with and intend to continue to hire third parties to perform services related to our operations. There is a risk that we may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that our contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, we could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of our contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are not fully insured against all risks and our insurance may not cover any or all environmental claims that might arise from our operations or at any of our license areas. If a significant accident or 61 Table of Contents other event occurs and is not covered by insurance, such accident or event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Releases of regulated substances may occur and can be significant. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our facilities and at any third party waste disposal sites used by us or on our behalf. In addition, offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production involves various hazards, including human exposure to regulated substances, which include naturally occurring radioactive and other materials. As such, we could be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or for other damage resulting from the release of hazardous substances to the environment, property or to natural resources, or affecting endangered species. In addition, we expect continued and increasing attention to climate change issues. Various countries and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of GHGs, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of oil and natural gas combustion). The regulation of GHGs and the physical impacts of climate change in the areas in which we, our customers and the end-users of our products operate could adversely impact our operations and the demand for our products. Environmental, health and safety laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future climate change, environmental, health and safety laws, the actions or omissions of our block partners and third party contractors and our liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters." We may be exposed to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or otherwise securing an improper business advantage. In addition, the United Kingdom has enacted the Bribery Act of 2011, and we may be subject to that legislation under certain circumstances. We do business and may do additional business in the future in countries and regions in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials. We face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants. Our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective in preventing such unauthorized payments, and our employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We may incur substantial losses and become subject to liability claims as a result of future oil and natural gas operations, for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. We intend to maintain insurance against certain risks in the operation of the business we plan to develop and in amounts in which we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, may contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. For example, we are not insured against political or terrorism risks. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 62 Table of Contents Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including, but not limited to, puts, collars and fixed-price swaps. In addition, we currently, and may in the future, hold swaps designed to hedge our interest rate risk. We do not currently designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; •the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or •there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements may limit the benefit we could receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas or beneficial interest rate fluctuations and may expose us to cash margin requirements. Our commercial debt facility contains certain covenants that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our commercial debt facility includes certain covenants that, among other things, restrict: •our investments, loans and advances and certain of our subsidiaries' payment of dividends and other restricted payments; •our incurrence of additional indebtedness; •the granting of liens, other than liens created pursuant to the commercial debt facility and certain permitted liens; •mergers, consolidations and sales of all or a substantial part of our business or licenses; •the hedging, forward sale or swap of our production of crude oil or natural gas or other commodities; •the sale of assets (other than production sold in the ordinary course of business); and •our capital expenditures that we can fund with our commercial debt facility. Our commercial debt facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as debt service coverage ratios. All of these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our commercial debt facility may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, our results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our commercial debt facility, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our commercial debt facility, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest, our lenders, successors or assignees could proceed against their collateral. If the indebtedness 63 Table of Contents under our commercial debt facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness may increase and thereby reduce our financial flexibility. In March 2011 we entered into a $2.0 billion commercial debt facility (the "Facility"), which may be increased to $3.0 billion upon our obtaining additional commitments. At December 31, 2011, we had $1.1 billion outstanding and $890 million of committed undrawn capacity under such facility, of which $153 million was available. In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make investments or acquisitions or to explore, appraise or develop our oil and natural gas assets. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion or all of our cash flows, when generated, could be used to service our indebtedness; •a high level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; •a high level of indebtedness may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness could prevent us from pursuing; •our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; •additional hedging instruments may be required as a result of our indebtedness; •a high level of indebtedness may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; and •a high level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, risks associated with exploring for and producing oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our indebtedness and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our equity securities or a refinancing of our indebtedness include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. Our operations may be adversely affected by the European debt crisis. During 2011, the long term structural deficits in numerous European nations coupled with the deterioration of the economic outlook led the weaker nations to a liquidity and solvency crisis. Eurozone leaders have made numerous attempts to solve this debt crisis; but, to date a sustainable long term solution has not been implemented and much uncertainty remains. The crisis has had a negative impact on major European banks which historically were significant providers of credit to the energy sector, globally and in the US. 64 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, our Facility includes $2.0 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $153 million was available; approximately 60%, or $91.0 million, of the undrawn availability under the Facility as of December 31, 2011 was with European financial institutions. If any of the financial institutions within our Facility are unable to perform on their commitments, our liquidity could be impacted which could have a significant negative impact on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of prospects and licenses, reserves and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of these assets requires an assessment of several factors, including: •recoverable reserves; •future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; •development and operating costs; and •potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject assets that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the assets to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and could acquire assets on an "as is" basis. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including: •diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; •the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; •difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and •the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a significant acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The success of a significant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities from combining the acquired assets or operations with those of ours. Even if a combination is successful, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated 65 Table of Contents proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, increased interest expense associated with debt incurred or assumed in connection with the transaction, adverse changes in oil and gas industry conditions, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties, including the assumption of environmental or other liabilities in connection with the acquisition. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, and investor, supplier and customer confidence in our reported financial information. As described in "Item 9A. Controls and Procedures," during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, management determined that the Company had a material weaknesses in its system of internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, management did not perform a sufficiently precise review to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the Company's calculation of its income tax provision related to our treatment of unrealized derivative losses. While the Company has taken steps to remediate this material weakness, at December 31, 2011, the Company had not yet completed its assessment as to whether the material weakness had been fully remediated. Until it is fully remediated, this material weakness could lead to errors in our reported financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor, supplier and customer confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our common shares. Because we are a relatively small company, the requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management; and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with listed equity securities, we must comply with additional laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We will need to: •institute a more comprehensive compliance function; •design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; •comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE; •prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; and •involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities. 66 Table of Contents Lastly, we are evaluating the potential listing of our common shares on the Ghana Stock Exchange ("GSE"), although there can be no assurance that this listing will be completed in a timely manner, or at all. Complying with the regulations and requirements of the GSE may heighten the risks listed above. Our bye-laws contain a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which could adversely affect our business or future prospects. Our bye-laws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any right, interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be from time to time be presented to certain of our affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents, shareholders, members, partners, affiliates and subsidiaries (other than us and our subsidiaries) or business opportunities that such parties participate in or desire to participate in, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so, and no such person shall be liable to us for breach of any statutory, fiduciary, contractual or other duty, as a director or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity, to us unless, in the case of any such person who is our director, such person fails to present any business opportunity that is expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as our director. As a result, our directors and certain of our affiliates and their respective affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they or their affiliates have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. As a result, our renouncing of our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to our directors and certain of our affiliates and their respective affiliates could adversely impact our business or future prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours. We receive certain beneficial tax treatment as a result of being an exempted company incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda. Changes in that treatment could have a material adverse effect on our net income, our cash flow and our financial condition. We are an exempted company incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and operate through subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the United States, Bermuda, Ghana, and other jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are resident. Recent legislation has been introduced in the Congress of the United States that is intended to reform the U.S. tax laws as they apply to certain non-U.S. entities and operations, including legislation that would treat a foreign corporation as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if substantially all of its senior management is located in the United States. If this or other legislation is passed that ultimately changes our U.S. tax position, it could have a material adverse effect on our net income, our cash flow and our financial condition. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or 67 Table of Contents appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") has published reports and launched a global initiative among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and as such is listed on the OECD "white" list. However, we are not able to predict whether any changes will be made to this classification or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. The adoption of financial reform legislation by the United States Congress in 2010 could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price and other risks associated with our business. We use derivative instruments to manage our commodity price risk. The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation in 2010 that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as ours, that participate in that market. The legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010, and its provisions generally are effective 360 days from the date of enactment, or July 16, 2011. Provisions that require rulemaking by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") and the SEC will not take effect until at least 60 days after publication of the related final rule. The CFTC and the SEC have not completed all of the rulemaking the Dodd-Frank Act directs them to carry out. The regulators have granted temporary relief from the general effective date for various requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, and also have indicated they may phase in implementation of various requirements of the new rules. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. The CFTC adopted these proposed regulations with modifications on October 18, 2011, but it is not possible at this time to predict when these regulations will take effect. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. In addition, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to 68 Table of Contents lower commodity prices. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to promulgate rules requiring SEC reporting companies that engage in the commercial development of oil, natural gas or minerals, to include in their annual reports filed with the SEC disclosure about all payments (including taxes, royalties, fees and other amounts) made by the issuer or an entity controlled by the issuer to the United States or to any non-U.S. government for the purpose of commercial development of oil, natural gas or minerals. As these rules are not yet effective, we are unable to predict what form the final rules may take and whether we will be able to comply with them without adversely impacting our business, or at all. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be or become a "passive foreign investment company" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could create adverse tax consequences for U.S. investors. U.S. investors that hold stock in a "passive foreign investment company" ("PFIC") are subject to special rules that can create adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including imputed interest charges and recharacterization of certain gains and distributions. Based on management estimates and projections of future revenue, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and we do not expect to become one in the foreseeable future. Because PFIC status is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. We could incur a liability in connection with securities litigation. On January 10, 2012, a lawsuit was filed in the 68th Judicial District Court of Dallas County, Texas, against Kosmos Energy Ltd., all of our directors, certain officers of the Company, Warburg Pincus LLC, Blackstone Capital Partners and the underwriters of our IPO, alleging violations of the federal securities laws. Specifically, the plaintiff alleged, among other things, that the defendants made materially false statements and omissions in the documents related to the IPO concerning anticipated gross oil production from the Jubilee Field and that the defendants failed to disclose that several wells were not producing as expected due to design defects that will purportedly cost hundreds of millions of dollars to remediate and will purportedly keep such wells from producing as expected for several years. The plaintiff seeks to certify the lawsuit as a class action lawsuit. We intend to defend vigorously against the lawsuit and do not believe it will have a material adverse effect on our business. However, if we are unsuccessful in this litigation and any loss exceeds our available insurance, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time, we also are involved in various other legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business. While we cannot predict the occurrence or outcome of these proceedings with certainty, we do not believe that an adverse result in any pending legal or regulatory proceeding, individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial condition or cash flows; however, an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a specific interim period or year. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our share price may be volatile, and purchasers of our common shares could incur substantial losses. Our share price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common shares may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: •the price of oil and natural gas; 69 Table of Contents •the success of our exploration and development operations, and the marketing of any oil and natural gas we produce; •regulatory developments in Bermuda, the United States and foreign countries where we operate; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities; •analysts' reports or recommendations; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common shares; •the issuance of any additional securities of ours; •investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete; and •general economic, political and market conditions. A substantial portion of our total issued and outstanding common shares may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common shares to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. All of the shares sold in our IPO are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our "affiliates" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Substantially all of the remaining common shares are restricted securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the U.S. public market only if registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rule 144 or Rule 701 under the Securities Act. All of our restricted shares became eligible for sale in the public market beginning in late 2011, subject in certain circumstances to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. Additionally, we have registered all our common shares that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, unless pursuant to their terms these share awards have transfer restrictions attached to them. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell common shares, could reduce the market price of our common shares. The concentration of our share capital ownership among our largest shareholders, and their affiliates, will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our two largest shareholders collectively own approximately 72% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Consequently, these shareholders have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Holders of our common shares will be diluted if additional shares are issued. We may issue additional common shares, preferred shares, warrants, rights, units and debt securities for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, repayment or refinancing of 70 Table of Contents borrowings, working capital, capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions. We continue to actively seek to expand our business through complementary or strategic acquisitions of assets, and we may issue additional common shares in connection with those acquisitions. We also issue restricted shares to our executive officers, employees and independent directors as part of their compensation. If we issue additional common shares in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding shareholders. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Funds affiliated with Warburg Pincus LLC and The Blackstone Group L.P., respectively, continue to control a majority of the voting power of our issued and outstanding common shares, and we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: •a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; •the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; •the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •there be an annual self assessment evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We have elected to be treated as a controlled company and utilize these exemptions, including the exemption for a board of directors composed of a majority of independent directors. In addition, although we have adopted charters for our audit, nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees and intend to conduct annual self assessment for these committees, currently, none of these committees are composed entirely of independent directors. We have elected to rely on the phase-in rules of the SEC and the NYSE with respect to the independence of our audit committee. These rules permit us to have an audit committee that has one member that is independent upon the effectiveness of the registration statement for our IPO, a majority of members that are independent within 90 days thereafter and all members that are independent within one year thereafter. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our shares appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common shares in the foreseeable future. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries are currently restricted in their ability to pay dividends to us pursuant to the terms of our commercial debt facility unless they meet certain conditions, financial and otherwise. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common shares after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. We are a Bermuda company and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of 71 Table of Contents shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. One of our directors is not a resident of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on that person in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or that person based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the "Bermuda Companies Act"). The Bermuda Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Set forth below is a summary of these provisions, as well as modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, as long as a director discloses a direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement with us as required by law, such director is entitled to vote in respect of any such contract or arrangement in which he or she is interested, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the meeting, and such a contract or arrangement will not be voidable solely as a result of the interested director's participation in its approval. In addition, the director will not be liable to us for any profit realized from the transaction. In contrast, under Delaware law, such a contract or arrangement is voidable unless it is approved by a majority of disinterested directors or by a vote of shareholders, in each case if the material facts as to the interested director's relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the disinterested directors or shareholders, or such contract or arrangement is fair to the corporation as of the time it is approved or ratified. Additionally, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The amalgamation of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation (other than certain affiliated companies) requires the amalgamation agreement to be approved by the company's board of directors and by its shareholders. Unless the company's bye-laws provide otherwise, the approval of 75% of the shareholders voting at such meeting is required to approve the amalgamation agreement, and the quorum for such meeting must be two persons holding or representing more than one-third of the issued shares of the company. Our bye-laws provide that an amalgamation (other than with a wholly owned subsidiary, per the Bermuda Companies Act) that has been approved by the board must only be approved by shareholders owning a majority of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote. Under Bermuda law, in the event of an amalgamation of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation, a shareholder of the Bermuda company who is not satisfied that fair value has been offered for such shareholder's shares may, within one month of notice of the shareholders meeting, apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda to appraise the fair value of those shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a shareholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain 72 Table of Contents circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such shareholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such shareholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such shareholder would otherwise receive in the transaction. Shareholders' Suit. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Our bye-laws contain a provision by virtue of which we and our shareholders waive any claim or right of action that they have, both individually and on our behalf, against any director or officer in relation to any action or failure to take action by such director or officer, except in respect of any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors and officers in their capacity as directors or officers for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. In addition, we have entered into customary indemnification agreements with our directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 