D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to continuously anticipate user preferences and provide attractive services and applications, we may not be able to increase the size and level of engagement of our user base. The success of our business depends on our ability to grow our user base and keep our users highly engaged. In order to attract and retain users, we must continue to innovate and introduce services and applications that our users find enjoyable. If we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our users, the size and engagement level of our user base may decrease. Furthermore, because of the viral nature of social networking, users may switch to our competitors’ services more quickly than in other online sectors, despite the fact that it would be time-consuming for them to restart the process of establishing connections with friends and post photos and other content via one of our competitor’s services. A decrease in the number of our users would render our services less attractive to users and advertisers and may decrease our revenues, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, since a substantial number of users of our new services and products over the years had already been users of Renren.com, our SNS platform, we believe the new services we may pursue will depend upon our ability to maintain and increase the user base for our SNS platform, the level of user engagement on our platform and the stickiness of our platform. If we are unable to maintain or increase the size and level of engagement of our user base for our SNS platform, the performance of our new services may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business. In our social networking business, we compete with companies and services such as Tencent’s Q-zone and WeChat, SINA’s Weibo.com, and kaixin001.com. In our online games business, we primarily compete with companies such as Tencent, Qihu360 and 7Road.com. In our social commerce business, we mainly compete against meituan.com, dianping.com and lashou.com. In our online video business, we compete against companies that enable users to upload, view and/or share video content, such as Youku Tudou, Sohu.com, iQiyi.com and Tencent, as well companies which provide online entertainment services, such as YY Inc. Competition in the mobile landscape of these services is as intense, if not more, as with their PC counterparts. We also compete for online advertising revenues with other websites that sell online advertising services in China. 6 Table of Contents Some of our competitors have significantly larger user bases and more established brand names and may be able to effectively leverage their user bases and brand names to provide integrated internet communication, online games, social networking and other products and services available over the internet via PCs and mobile devices and increase their respective market shares. We may also face potential competition from global social networking service providers that seek to enter the China market. Some of our competitors may have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, and in turn may have an advantage in attracting and retaining users and advertisers. If we are not able to effectively compete, our user base and level of user engagement may decrease, which could make us less attractive to advertisers and materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain and increase revenues from online advertising, and which may also reduce the number of paying users that purchase our internet value-added services, or IVAS. Similarly, we may be required to spend additional resources to further increase our brand recognition and promote our services in order to compete effectively, especially with respect to marketing of our social commerce and other new services to capture market share, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we compete for advertising budgets with traditional advertising media in China, such as television and radio stations, newspapers and magazines, and major out-of-home media. If online advertising as a new marketing channel does not become more widely accepted in China, we may experience difficulties in competing with traditional advertising media. We may not be able to successfully expand and monetize our mobile internet services. An important element of our strategy is to continue to expand our mobile internet services. We have made significant efforts in recent years to develop new mobile applications to capture a greater share of the growing number of users that access social networking, online games, social commerce and other internet services through smart phones and other mobile devices. For example, the mobile percentage of our monthly total user time spent on Renren.com was 20.2%, 54.1% and 69.1% in December 2010, December 2011 and December 2012, respectively, and the number of our monthly unique smartphone users who accessed renren.com increased from 1.4 million in December 2010 to 8.5 million in December 2011 and to 14.0 million in December 2012. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users, or if we are slower than our competitors in developing attractive services that are adapted for such devices, we may fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for our services or lose existing users, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, aside from mobile games, we are in the midst of experimenting with multiple early monetization strategies for our mobile internet services. Advertisers currently spend significantly less on advertising on mobile devices as compared to advertising on PCs, and we cannot assure you that advertisers will in the future increase their spending on advertising on mobile devices. As our users continue to allocate more time on our mobile services instead of our traditional PC services, mobile monetization will become increasingly important as a path to profitability. Accordingly, if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our mobile users and if our users continue to increasingly access our services through mobile devices as a substitute for access through personal computers, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. We may not be able to further grow our online games business. We rely on our online games business for a substantial percentage of our revenues. Net revenues from our online games business accounted for 45.0%, 35.9% and 51.2% of our total net revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Going forward, we expect that revenues from the online games business will continue to be a substantial percentage of our total net revenues. Reliance on the online games business subjects us to a number of risks: 7 Table of Contents · Continuing to develop and source new games that appeal to our game players is an important part of our business expansion plans. Our ability to develop successful new games further depends on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing game player interests and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner, to attract, retain and motivate talented game development personnel and to execute effectively our game development plans. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in each of these areas. · We are dependent on hit titles as a large percentage of our online game revenues. For example, in 2012, our top five games contributed 68% of our online games revenues, which comprised 35% of our total revenues for 2012. Online games have a finite commercial lifespan and tend to become less popular after a few years. If our hit titles start to decrease in popularity and we do not have follow-up hit titles in our pipeline, our revenues may be negatively affected. · While we have been operating in the online games business since 2007, mobile games and cross-platform games, which are games that allow users to play the same game between PC and mobile devices while also using the same account, are relatively new in the games sector. There can be no assurance that our strategy of providing mobile games and cross-platform games will be successful. · Our users download our mobile games from direct-to-consumer digital storefronts such as Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store. The terms and conditions between the store operators and the application developers governing the promotion, distribution and operation of applications, including mobile games, are normally standardized and non-negotiable. If the store operators believe the terms and conditions have been violated, they have the right to suspend or terminate a developer’s account. In addition, if we are unable to maintain a good relationship with each platform, or if our mobile games were unavailable on these platforms for any prolonged period of time, our business may suffer. For example, our games were temporarily removed from Apple’s Appstore in 2012. After communicating with Apple to address their inquiries, these games were restored. We have since enhanced our internal processes to ensure inquiries or concerns from store operators are responded to quickly and properly. · If we are unable to successfully capture and retain a significant portion of the growing number of Android users that accesses online games, we may lose users, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. · We license many of our online games, including some of our most popular games, from third parties. Additionally, we depend upon our licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games. We must maintain good relationships with our licensors to continue to source new games with reasonable revenue-sharing terms and ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed games. We may incur additional costs and may face significant risks when we license our games outside of China and seek to expand our operations to select markets, such as the United States and Asia. If we fail to successfully manage these risks, our growth and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We plan to continue to invest significantly in growing our social commerce services and we may not be successful in this endeavor, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since June 2010, we have provided social commerce services through nuomi.com. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, revenues from our social commerce services were US$1.2 million, US$6.5 million and US$16.1 million, respectively, representing 1.6%, 5.5% and 9.2%, respectively, of our total revenues. Operating expenses from our social commerce services were US$1.1 million, US$30.2 million and US$42.2 million, respectively, representing 2.0%, 24.7% and 21.0%, respectively, of our total operating expenses. We plan to continue to invest significantly in the expansion of our social commerce services. As a result of the short history of the social commerce industry in China, its potentially volatile growth, and the relatively low margins experienced in this business, our ability to successfully implement our expansion strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: 8 Table of Contents · our ability to maintain and increase competitiveness against the largest and leading social commerce service providers in China; · the significant investments required to promote and improve our services to users; · the significant investments required to market and demonstrate the value of our social commerce services to merchants; · our ability to maintain our reputation and brand in the social commerce service industry; · uncertainties regarding the evolution of the PRC laws and regulations applicable to the social commerce industry; and · our ability to provide high quality social commerce services on mobile devices which meet our mobile users’ needs. In addition, our social commerce services require us to engage in activities that are not a substantial part of our other services. For example, in order to arrange high quality social commerce deals regularly in each location covered by nuomi.com, we have introduced local sales teams, who work directly with local merchants or event organizers seeking to target users in a specific city or region. We may not be able to effectively manage these local sales teams. Further, some of the deals offered through our social commerce services are physical goods which must be delivered to users by third parties, and it is possible that the goods to be delivered by the third parties may not be delivered timely, or at all, and may not be in the form or condition expected by our users. If we fail to effectively perform these aspects of our social commerce services, our social commerce services and our prospects may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to manage these risks and successfully implement our expansion plans, our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not be able to further grow 56.com, our online video business, or develop it into a profitable business. In October 2011, we acquired Wole Inc., a Cayman Islands company which operates 56.com, a user generated content online video sharing website in China, through a set of contractual arrangements with its affiliated entities. We believe that our acquisition of 56.com has helped us further meet the needs of our users to record and share their lives on our social network through video format. However, the online video industry in China is very competitive and fragmented, and some of our users may prefer to use the online video services offered by larger players in the industry which have larger libraries of user-generated content and professional videos. To empower our users, we have given them a range of tools to access and share video content from the websites of other companies which offer online video services, and it is possible that our users may use such tools to access our competitors’ websites and user traffic on 56.com may be adversely affected as a result. Growth of the online video industry in China is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online video experience, technological innovations, development of internet and internet-based services, regulatory changes, especially regulations affecting copyrights, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if 56.com fails to benefit from such growth, user traffic on 56.com may decrease and its business and prospects may be adversely affected. Further, to date, 56.com, like many online video service providers in China, has not been profitable, and there is no assurance that it will be profitable in the future. Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainty that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our plan to continue to grow our user base and improve our user experience, we from time to time consider opportunities to acquire, invest in or partner with other companies that bring us complementary or new users, technologies or services. Strategic acquisitions and investments may subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: 9 Table of Contents · costs associated with, and difficulties in, integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; · potentially significant goodwill impairment charges; · potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; · high acquisition and financing costs; · potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and · diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may from time to time attempt to achieve our objectives of enhancing our user experience, broadening the appeal of our platform and increasing the number of our users by establishing strategic alliances with various third parties, including through our Renren Connect and Renren Open Platform programs. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the counter-party, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The business opportunities for SNS, online games, social commerce, online video and other internet services in China are continuously evolving and may not grow as quickly as expected, in ways that are consistent with other markets, or at all. Our business and prospects depend on the continuous development of emerging internet business models in China, including those for social networking, online games, social commerce and online videos. Our main internet services have distinct business models which may differ from models for these businesses in other markets, such as the United States, and that are in varying stages of development and monetization. We cannot assure you that the industries in which we operate in China will continue to grow as rapidly as they have in the past, in ways that are consistent with other markets, or at all. With the development of technology, new internet services may emerge which may render our existing service offerings less attractive to users. The growth and development of the social networking, online games, social commerce and online video industries is affected by numerous factors, such as the macroeconomic environment, regulatory changes, technological innovations, development of internet and internet-based services, users’ general online experience, cultural influences and changes in tastes and preferences. If these internet industries do not grow as quickly as expected or at all, or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. If we fail to keep up with the technological developments and users’ changing requirements, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The social networking, online games, social commerce and online video industries are subject to rapid and continuous changes in technology, user preferences, such as the movement of our user base from personal computers to mobile devices, the nature of services offered and business models. Our success will depend on our ability to keep up with the changes in technology and user behavior resulting from technological developments. If we do not adapt our services to such changes in an effective and timely manner, we may suffer from decreased user traffic, which may result in a reduced number of advertisers for our online advertising services or a decrease in their advertising spending. In addition, if we adopt new technologies which turn out to be less proven, and user experience suffers as a result, our users may use our platform less often. Furthermore, changes in technologies may require substantial capital expenditures in product development as well as in modification of products, services or infrastructure. We may not successfully execute our business strategies due to a variety of reasons such as technical hurdles, misunderstanding or erroneous prediction of market demand or lack of necessary resources. Failure in keeping up with technological developments may result in our platform being less attractive, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 10 Table of Contents We have experienced net losses in the past, and you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties fast-growing companies in evolving industries with limited operating histories, such as ours, may be exposed to or encounter. We had a loss from continuing operations of US$61.2 million, income from continuing operations of US$41.0 million and a loss from continuing operations of US$75.1 million in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Our loss from continuing operations in 2010 reflects the aggregate impact of non-cash items relating to the change in fair value of our then outstanding series D warrants, share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets and impairment of intangible assets, amounting to an aggregate of US$78.6 million in expenses in 2010. All outstanding warrants to purchase series D preferred shares were exercised in December 2010. Our income from continuing operations in 2011 was due in part to a one-time gain of US$50.9 million from the sale of eLong ADSs, and income from continuing operations in 2011 also reflected the aggregate impact of non-cash items relating to share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets and impairment of intangible assets of US$8.7 million. Our net loss from continuing operations in 2012 was primarily due to substantial investments in research and development, particularly those related to mobile initiatives, continued investment in our Nuomi social commerce business, as well as investment in our video sharing business 56.com, which we acquired in October 2011, and loss in equity method investments, net of income taxes, due to investments we made in 2011 and 2012. We expect that for the foreseeable future, investments in mobile initiatives, nuomi.com and 56.com will continue to constitute significant expenses decreasing our income or increasing our loss from continuing operations. In addition to the foregoing, our results of operations for the past three years were affected by costs and expenses required to build, operate and expand our SNS platform, grow our user base, promote our Renren brand, develop our own products and services, license third-party products and applications, and make other strategic investments. We expect that we will continue to incur significant research and development, marketing and other costs to launch new services and grow our user and advertiser bases. In particular, our plan to continue focusing our strategy on mobile opportunities, with increasing effort to experiment with different monetization models, including mobile games, mobile advertising and mobile commerce through Nuomi, will result in significant costs and expenses, and the profitability of this strategy has yet to be proven. Our ability to achieve profitability is affected by various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For example, revenues from, and the profitability of, our online games business depend on our ability to internally develop games that are attractive to our user base or license them from third parties. In addition, our revenues and profitability depend on the continuous development of the online advertising industry in China and advertisers’ allocation of more of their budgets to SNS and online video websites. We cannot assure you that online advertising will become more widely accepted in China or that advertisers will increase their spending on SNS or online video websites. Aside from mobile games, we currently do not have a clear monetization model for mobile users. Furthermore, the success of our social commerce services depends on our ability to maintain and grow our user and merchant base while earning revenues from merchants that offer attractive discounts to the users of our nuomi.com website. We may incur net losses in the future and you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies, and companies following the migration of their users from PC to mobile, in evolving industries such as the SNS, online games, social commerce and online video industries in China. We rely on online advertising for a sizeable proportion of our revenues. If the online advertising industry in China or advertisers’ willingness to advertise on our SNS platform grow slower than expected or declines, our revenues, profitability and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, online advertising accounted for 41.8%, 50.5% and 30.6%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Consequently, our profitability and prospects depend in part on the continuous development of the online advertising industry and are impacted by the amount of our advertising clients’ budgets which are devoted to advertising on social networking websites in China. However, the internet penetration rate in China is relatively low as compared to most developed countries, and many advertisers in China have limited experience with online advertising and have historically allocated a small portion of their advertising budgets to online advertising. Advertising on social networking websites is an even newer marketing channel in China, and those companies which are willing to begin advertising online may decide to utilize more established methods or channels for online advertising, such as the more established Chinese internet portals or search engines. In addition, in challenging macroeconomic conditions, advertisers are generally less willing to devote resources to online advertising, including advertising on social networks. We believe the reduction in our advertising revenue in 2012 was due in part to the continued challenging macroeconomic conditions in China bearing on our advertising clients, and that these conditions have resulted in intensifying competition for online advertising revenue among the major websites in China offering SNS, online video and other communication services. Further, we may be unable to respond adequately to changing trends in online advertising or advertiser demands or preferences, technological innovation and improvements in the measurement of user traffic and online advertising, and technological developments more generally. In this regard, the migration of our user traffic from PC to mobile, which gathered momentum in 2011 and noticeably increased in 2012, has had an adverse impact on our online advertising revenues, as advertisers have, to date, spent considerably less money advertising on mobile devices. If the online advertising market size does not increase from current levels, we are unable to successfully compete and capture a sufficient share of that market or we are unable to generate meaningful advertising revenues from mobile devices, our ability to maintain or increase our current level of online advertising revenues, and our profitability and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Renren user growth and engagement on mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. There is no guarantee that popular mobile devices will continue to feature Renren, or that mobile device users will continue to use Renren rather than competing products. We are dependent on the interoperability of Renren with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as iOS, Android and Windows, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products’ functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect Renren usage on mobile devices. Additionally, in order to deliver high quality mobile products, it is important that our products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, or standards. In the event that it is more difficult for our users to access and use Renren on their mobile devices, or if our users choose not to access or use Renren on their mobile devices or use mobile products that do not offer access to Renren, our user growth and user engagement could be harmed. If we fail to maintain and enhance our Renren, Nuomi, 56.com and other brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our Renren, Nuomi, 56.com and other brands is of significant importance to the success of our business. Well-recognized brands are critical to increasing the number and the level of engagement of our users and, in turn, enhancing our attractiveness to advertisers. Since we operate in a highly competitive market, maintaining and enhancing our brands directly affects our ability to maintain our market position. We have developed our reputation and established our leading market position in the social networking industry in China by providing our users with a superior online experience. We have conducted and may continue to conduct various marketing and brand promotion activities, both through cooperation with our business partners and through more traditional methods, such as television advertisements. We cannot assure you, however, that these activities will be successful or that we will be able to achieve the brand promotion effect we expect. In addition, any negative publicity in relation to our services or products, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brands and the perception of our brands in the market. We have received complaints from users, including users of our nuomi.com website, regarding the quality or availability of the products, services and events offered on nuomi.com by the various merchants with whom we contract, and we expect that we will continue to receive complaints in the future. The legal responsibility to users for the quality and availability of products, services and events offered on nuomi.com is normally borne by the merchants, not by us. However, regardless of which party bears such legal responsibility, if our users’ complaints are not addressed to their satisfaction, our reputation and our market position could be significantly harmed, which may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our expansion effectively. We have experienced rapid growth in our business in recent years. The number of our activated users on Renren.com increased from approximately 110 million as of December 31, 2010 to approximately 178 million as of December 31, 2012, and our monthly unique log-in users on Renren.com increased from approximately 26 million in December 2010 to approximately 56 million in December 2012. In addition, the number of our employees grew rapidly from 1,570 as of December 31, 2010 to 4,603 as of December 31, 2012. Further, the portfolio of services we offer has expanded from real name social networking services, which has historically been the core of our company’s business, to online games, social commerce, online video services and other new initiatives. In addition, in recent years, we have developed and launched versions of these services for mobile devices, and we currently offer them on both PCs and mobile devices. We expect to continue to grow our user base and our business operations, including launching new services and mobile applications. Our rapid expansion may expose us to new challenges and risks. To manage the further expansion of our business and the expected growth of our operations and the number of our research and development, sales and other personnel, we need to continuously expand and enhance our infrastructure and technology, and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. We also need to train, manage and motivate our growing employee base. In addition, we need to maintain and expand our relationships with advertisers, advertising agencies, third-party developers of online games and applications offered on our platform, merchants for our nuomi.com services and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, infrastructure, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our expanding operations, that our new service lines or mobile applications will experience the synergies we expect, or that we will be able to successfully monetize the mobile versions of our services. Furthermore, expansions into new services may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter. If we fail to manage our expansions effectively, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Content posted or displayed on our websites may be found objectionable by PRC regulatory authorities and may subject us to penalties and other severe consequences. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China or the public interest, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Furthermore, internet content providers are also prohibited from displaying content that may be deemed by relevant government authorities as “socially destabilizing” or leaking state secrets of the PRC. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses, the closure of the concerned websites and reputational harm. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to their website. For a detailed discussion, see “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Value-Added Telecommunications Services,” “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Internet Content Services” and “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Information Security and Censorship.” Through our SNS platform, we allow users to upload content on our platform, including via message boards, blogs, email, chat rooms, or image-sharing webpages, and also allow users to share, link to and otherwise access audio, video and other content from other websites. In addition, we allow users to download, share and otherwise access games and other applications on and through our platform, including through our online games business and Renren Open Platform program. Further, we allow users to upload a variety of videos and graphics to our 56.com website. After a user registers and before each upload, we require the user to click a box to confirm that the user has read and agreed to be bound by our copyright agreement. Pursuant to the copyright agreement, the user warrants that the content to be uploaded does not violate any laws or regulations or any third party rights. If we discover that any uploaded content is inappropriate, we can delete or revise the content, or terminate the user account. In addition, we remove user uploads when we are notified or made aware, by copyright owners or from other sources, of copyright infringements or other illegal uploads. For a description of how content can be accessed on or through our SNS platform, and what measures we take to lessen the likelihood that we will be held liable for the nature of such content, see “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Technology and Infrastructure—Anti-spamming and other filtering systems” and “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—We have been and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations by third parties for services we provide or for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites, or distributed to our users, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects.” 13 Table of Contents Failure to identify and prevent illegal or inappropriate content from being displayed on or through our websites for internet users or mobile users may subject us to liability. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, and it may not be possible to determine in all cases the types of content that could result in our liability as a website operator. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on or through our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination or availability of such content on our websites in the form of take-down orders or otherwise. Such regulatory authorities may also impose penalties on us based on content displayed or made available through our websites in cases of material violations, including a revocation of our operating licenses or a suspension or shutdown of our online operations, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation. Moreover, the costs of compliance with these regulations may continue to increase as a result of more content being uploaded or made available by an increasing number of users and third-party partners and developers. Concerns about collection and use of personal data could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. As of December 31, 2012, our platform had accumulated a total of approximately 5.4 billion photos, 312 million blogs, 38 billion comments or reviews and 58 million videos. Under our privacy policy, without our users’ prior consent, we will not provide any of our users’ personal information to any unrelated third party. While we strive to comply with our privacy guidelines as well as all applicable data protection laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, and could damage our reputation. User and regulatory attitudes towards privacy are evolving, and future regulatory or user concerns about the extent to which personal information can be shared may adversely affect our ability to share certain data with advertisers, which may limit certain methods of targeted advertising. Concerns about the security of personal data could also lead to a decline in general internet usage, which could lead to lower user traffic on our platform. A significant reduction in user traffic could lead to lower advertising revenues or lower IVAS revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable for any breach of security relating to our payment platforms or the third-party online payment platforms we use, and concerns about the security of internet transactions could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our platform and have other adverse consequences to our business. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of our virtual currency and other paid services and applications to our users and game players through third-party online payment platforms using the internet or mobile networks. In all these online payment transactions, secured transmission of confidential information over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of our sales will be conducted over the internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, associated online fraud will likely increase as well. Our current security measures and those of the third parties with whom we transact business may not be adequate. We must be prepared to increase and enhance our security measures and efforts so that our users and game players have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that we use, which will impose additional costs and expenses and may still not guarantee complete safety. In addition, we do not have control over the security measures of our third-party online payment vendors. Although we have not in the past experienced material security breaches of the online payments that we use, such security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could, among other things, damage our reputation and the perceived security of the online payment systems that we use. Spammers and malicious applications may make our services less user-friendly, and distort the data used for advertising purposes, which could reduce our ability to attract advertisers. Spammers may use our platform and services to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may embarrass or annoy users and make usage of our services and networks more time-consuming and less user-friendly. As a result, our users may use our services less or stop using them altogether. As part of fraudulent spamming activities, spammers typically create multiple user accounts, such as accounts being set-up for the purposes of sending spam messages. Although we have technologies and employees that attempt to identify and delete accounts created for spamming purposes, we may not be able to eliminate all spam messages from being sent on our platform. In addition, we have limited ability to validate or confirm the accuracy of information provided during the user registration process. Inaccurate data with respect to the number of unique individuals registered and actively using our services may cause advertisers to reduce the amount spent on advertising through our websites. In addition, use of applications that permit users to block advertisements may become widespread, which could make online advertising less attractive to advertisers. Any such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Advertisements shown on our websites may subject us to penalties and other administrative actions. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content shown on our websites to ensure that such content is true and accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific types of advertisements prior to website posting, such as advertisements relating to pharmaceuticals, medical instruments, agrochemicals and veterinary pharmaceuticals, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. Violation of these laws and regulations may subject us to penalties, including fines, confiscation of our advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an announcement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations by us, PRC governmental authorities may force us to terminate our advertising operations or revoke our licenses. While significant efforts have been made to ensure that the advertisements shown on our websites are in full compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that all the content contained in such advertisements or offers is true and accurate as required by the advertising laws and regulations, especially given the uncertainty in the interpretation of these PRC laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of applicable PRC advertising laws and regulations, we may be subject to penalties and our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Online communications among our users may lead to personal conflicts, which could damage our reputation, lead to government investigation and have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our users engage in highly personalized exchanges over our platform. Users who have met online through our services may become involved in emotionally charged situations and could suffer adverse moral, emotional or physical consequences. Such occurrences could be highly publicized and have a significant negative impact on our reputation. Government authorities may require us to discontinue or restrict those services that would have led, or may lead, to such events. As a result, our business may suffer and our user base, revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties to provide a number of important services in connection with our business, and any disruption to the provision of these services to us could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is to a significant extent dependent upon services provided by third parties and business relationships with third parties. Substantially all of our online advertising revenues are generated through agreements entered into with various third-party advertising agencies, and we rely on these agencies for sales to, and collection of payment from, our advertisers. We do not have long-term cooperation agreements or exclusive arrangements with these agencies and they may elect to direct business opportunities to other advertising service providers, including our competitors. If we fail to retain and enhance the business relationships with these third-party advertising agencies, we may suffer from a loss of advertisers and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of our IVAS revenues are generated from online games and applications developed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or renew licenses to such games or attract application developers to our platform, we could be required to devote greater resources and time to develop attractive games and applications on our own or license new games and applications from other parties. If the third parties on whom we rely fail to provide their services effectively, terminate their service or license agreements or discontinue their relationships with us, we could suffer service interruptions, reduced revenues or increased costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain third-party service providers could be difficult and costly to replace, and any disruption to the provision of these services to us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our operations depend on the performance of the internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Moreover, we primarily rely on a limited number of telecommunication service providers to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. We have limited access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks provided by telecommunication service providers. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites. We cannot assure you that the internet infrastructure and the fixed telecommunications networks in China will be able to support the demands associated with the continued growth in internet usage. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by telecommunication service providers. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decline and our business may be harmed. Changes in the policies, guidelines or practice of mobile network operators or the PRC government with respect to mobile applications and other content may negatively affect our business operations for mobile applications. We rely on PRC mobile network operators, directly and indirectly, to distribute our products to our users. The mobile telecommunication business in China is highly concentrated and major mobile network operators, such as China Mobile, may from time to time issue new policies or change their business practices, requesting or stating their preferences for certain actions to be taken by all mobile service providers using their networks. In addition, the PRC government may also implement new policies or change existing policies regulating the mobile telecommunication business. Such new policies or changes may negatively affect our business operations for mobile applications. Problems with our network infrastructure or information technology systems could impair our ability to provide services. Our ability to provide our users with a high quality online experience depends on the continuing operation and scalability of our network infrastructure and information technology systems. We face a number of risks in this area. For example, our systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. We may also encounter problems when upgrading our systems or services and undetected programming errors could adversely affect the performance of the software we use to provide our services. In addition, we rely on servers, data centers and other network facilities provided by third parties, and the limited availability of third-party providers with sufficient capacity to house additional network facilities and broadband capacity in China may lead to higher costs or limit our ability to offer certain services or expand our business. These and other events have led and may in the future lead to interruptions, decreases in connection speed, degradation of our services or the permanent loss of user data and uploaded content. If we experience frequent or persistent service disruptions, whether caused by failures of our own systems or those of third-party service providers, our reputation or relationships with our users or advertisers may be damaged and our users and advertisers may switch to our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results of operations. Computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. For example, in December 2011, through hacking a third party CDN provider, a computer hacker was able to access the data of over six million internet users from a number of major internet websites in China, including our website. We responded to this incident by notifying our users of the incident and advising them to change their log-in details. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our products and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. 16 Table of Contents In addition, spammers attempt to use our products to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may embarrass or annoy users and make our internet platform less user-friendly. We cannot be certain that the technologies and employees that we have to attempt to defeat spamming attacks will be able to eliminate all spam messages from being sent on our platform. As a result of spamming activities, our users may use our internet platform less or stop using our products altogether. We have been and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations by third parties for services we provide or for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites, or distributed to our users, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, unfair competition, invasion of privacy, defamation and other violations of other parties’ rights. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related industries, particularly in China, are uncertain and still evolving. As we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Intellectual property claims and litigation are expensive and time-consuming to investigate and defend, and may divert resources and management attention from the operation of our business. Such claims, even if they do not result in liability, may harm our reputation. Any resulting liability or expenses, or changes required to our websites to reduce the risk of future liability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. We may be subject to patent infringement claims with respect to our SNS platform. Our technologies and business methods, including those relating to our SNS platform, may be subject to third-party claims or rights that limit or prevent their use. Certain U.S.-based companies have been granted patents in the United States relating to SNS platforms and similar business methods and related technologies. While we believe that we are not subject to U.S. patent laws since we conduct our business operations outside of the United States, we cannot assure you that U.S. patent laws would not be applicable to our business operations, or that holders of patents relating to a SNS platform would not seek to enforce such patents against us in the United States or China. For example, we are aware that Facebook applied for a number of patents relating to its social networking system and methodologies, platform and other related technologies. In addition, many parties are actively developing and seeking protection for internet-related technologies, including seeking patent protection in China. There may be patents issued or pending that are held by others that relate to certain aspects of our technologies, products, business methods or services. Although we do not believe we infringe third-party patents, the application and interpretation of China’s patent laws and the procedures and standards for granting patents in China are still evolving and involve uncertainty. Any patent infringement claims, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and costly to us. If we were sued for patent infringement claims with respect to our SNS platform and were found to infringe such patents and were not able to adopt non-infringing technologies, we may be severely limited in our ability to operate our SNS platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. Our own intellectual property rights may be infringed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of monitoring and enforcement of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection laws in the PRC and other jurisdictions, as well as through confidentiality agreements and procedures, to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use without our authorization our intellectual property, which includes trademarks related to our brands, products and services, patent applications, registered domain names, copyrights in software and creative content, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights and licenses. Historically, the legal system and courts of the PRC have not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system and courts of the United States, and companies operating in the PRC continue to face an increased risk of intellectual property infringement. Furthermore, the validity, application, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights for many internet-related activities, such as internet commercial methods patents, are uncertain and still evolving in China and abroad, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, other companies have in the past copied the concepts, the look and feel and even material parts of the online games that we have developed. In such instances, we have filed and may in the future from time to time file lawsuits for copyright infringement. 17 Table of Contents The revenue models we adopt for our online games and other entertainment and services may not remain effective, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate substantially all of our online games using the virtual item-based revenue model, whereby players can play games for free, but they have the option to purchase virtual in-game items such as items that improve the strength of game character, in-game accessories and pets. We have generated, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial majority of our online games revenues using this revenue model. However, the virtual item-based revenue model requires us to develop or license online games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires us to track closely game players’ tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If we fail to develop or offer virtual items which game players purchase, we may not be able to effectively convert our game player base into paying users. In addition, the virtual item-based revenue model may raise additional concerns with PRC regulators that have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that the Chinese youth spend playing online games and limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by an individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Furthermore, we may change the revenue model for some of our online games if we believe the existing revenue models are not optimal. We cannot assure you that the revenue model that we have adopted for any of our online games will continue to be suitable for that game, or that we will not in the future need to switch our revenue model or introduce a new revenue model for that game. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of our game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game and would be adversely affected by such a change, decreases in the number of our game players or decreases in the revenues we generate from our online games. Therefore, such changes in revenue models may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that the revenue models we have used in the PC-based versions of our services will be successful in their mobile counterparts, or that we will otherwise be able to design revenue models that successfully monetize our mobile user base. The continuing and collaborative efforts of our senior management, key employees and highly skilled personnel are crucial to our success, and our business may be harmed if we were to lose their services. Our success depends on the continuous effort and services of our experienced senior management team, in particular Mr. Joseph Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and Mr. James Jian Liu, our executive director and our chief operating officer. If one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with their services, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. Competition for management and key personnel is intense and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers or key personnel, or attract and retain experienced executive officers or key personnel in the future. If any of our executive officers or key employees join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose advertiser customers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between us and our executive officers or key employees, these agreements may not be enforceable in China, where these executive officers and key employees reside, in light of uncertainties relating to China’s laws and legal system. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our performance and future success also depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the SNS, online games and social commerce industries for qualified employees, including technical personnel capable of designing mobile and cross-platform services and products, is intense, and if competition in these industries further intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively or at all. 18 Table of Contents The performance of our investments, which include currency deposits and equity interests in companies and funds that are not our affiliates, could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have held large cash balances in currencies other than U.S. dollars, including Japanese Yen and Renminbi. We also held dual currency deposits in U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. Fluctuations in exchange rates and changes in the investment environment can affect market prices and the income from our deposits and other investments. We have in the past suffered substantial losses as a result of these deposits and other investments. We had an exchange loss of US$12.9 million on dual currency deposits in 2008, which primarily related to dual currency deposits in U.S. dollars and Australian dollars. We may in the future suffer substantial losses as a result of these deposits and other investments, which may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a detailed discussion of our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, see “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment” and for a discussion of our foreign exchange risk in general, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Risk.” We also hold marketable securities, including equity investments in corporations and funds that we do not control. If these investments perform poorly, we may suffer substantial losses, which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have granted, and may continue to grant, share options under our equity incentive plans, which may result in increased share-based compensation expenses. We have adopted four equity incentive plans, on February 27, 2006, January 31, 2008, October 15, 2009 and April 14, 2011. As of March 31, 2013, options to purchase a total of 76,549,353 ordinary shares of our company were outstanding. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we recorded US$2.8 million, US$5.5 million and US$10.9 million, respectively, in share-based compensation expenses. As of December 31, 2012, we had US$36.2 million of unrecognized share-based compensation expenses relating to share options, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted average vesting period of 2.74 years. We believe the granting of share options is of significant importance to our ability to attract and retain key personnel and employees, and we will continue to grant share options to employees in the future. As a result, our expenses associated with share-based compensation may increase, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results of operations difficult to predict and may cause our quarterly results of operations to fall short of expectations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate depending upon a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. Other factors that may affect our financial results include, among others: · global economic conditions; · our ability to enhance user experience and maintain and increase user traffic; · the quality and the number of games we offer on our platform in a given quarter; · our ability to attract and retain advertisers or recognize online advertising revenues in a given quarter; · the growth of the social networking industry in China; · our ability to monetize the mobile versions of our applications and services; · commission rate trends in China’s social commerce industry; · competition in our industry in China; · changes in government policies or regulations, or their enforcement; · geopolitical events or natural disasters such as war, threat of war, earthquake or epidemics; and · decreases in earnings from, or impairment of, our equity investments. 19 Table of Contents Our operating results tend to be seasonal and fluctuating. For instance, we typically have lower online advertising revenues during the first quarter of each year primarily due to the Chinese New Year holidays in that quarter, and we experienced a decline in our online advertising revenues in the fourth quarter of 2010, 2011 and 2012. In addition, advertising spending in China has historically been cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as the budgeting and buying patterns of our customers. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. As the advertising industry is particularly sensitive to economic downturns, our business and prospects have been, and will continue to be, be affected by the PRC and global macroeconomic environments. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our on our online advertising and other services, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud maybe adversely affected, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. Prior to our initial public offering in May 2011, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources for addressing our internal control over financial reporting. In preparing our consolidated financial statements for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 included in our registration statement on Form F-1 filed in connection with our initial public offering, we identified one “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Standard, or PCAOB. The material weakness identified related to insufficient accounting personnel with appropriate U.S. GAAP knowledge. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, the previously identified and disclosed material weakness still existed and that the material weakness had expanded to include insufficient financial reporting personnel with appropriate SEC financial reporting knowledge. As more fully described in “Item 15. Controls and Procedures”, we took measures to remediate the material weakness. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 included in this annual report, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, the aforementioned material weakness had been remediated. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we also identified a significant deficiency related to not having a formal policy for investment of our surplus cash and the management of our treasury function. And, during the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, a significant deficiency was identified related to the preparation and disclosure of segment reporting information. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Failure to discover, address or correct any other control deficiencies in the future could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to help prevent fraud. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. 20 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The leasehold interests of some of our consolidated affiliated entities might not be fully protected by the terms of the relevant lease agreements due to defects in or the landlord’s failure to provide certain title documents with respect to some of our leased properties. As of March 31, 2013, our consolidated affiliated entities leased properties in China covering a total floor area of approximately 57,534 square meters, primarily for use as offices. All such properties are leased from independent third parties. In respect of approximately 24,344 square meters of these properties, the lessors either do not have or have failed to provide proper title documents. In the event of a dispute related to the legal title of any of these properties, our consolidated affiliated entities could be compelled to vacate the properties on short notice and relocate to different facilities. As a result, the operations of our consolidated affiliated entities could be adversely affected if the aforementioned relocation(s) could not be completed efficiently and in a timely manner. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and the Regulation of our Business If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our services in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in internet businesses, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Current PRC laws and regulations place certain restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in internet businesses, including the provision of social networking services, online advertising services, online game services and online video services. Specifically, foreign ownership of internet service providers or other value-added telecommunication service providers may not exceed 50%. In addition, according to the Several Opinions on the Introduction of Foreign Investment in the Cultural Industry promulgated by the Ministry of Culture, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce in June 2005, foreign investors are prohibited from investing in or operating any internet cultural operating entities. We conduct our operations in China principally through three sets of contractual arrangements. The first set of contractual arrangements is among our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Qianxiang Shiji Technology Development (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or Qianxiang Shiji, and its consolidated affiliated entity, Beijing Qianxiang Tiancheng Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Qianxiang Tiancheng, and Qianxiang Tiancheng’s shareholders. Qianxiang Tiancheng’s wholly owned subsidiaries include Beijing Qianxiang Wangjing Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Qianxiang Wangjing, Shanghai Qianxiang Changda Internet Information Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Qianxiang Changda, and Beijing Nuomi Wang Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Beijing Nuomi. Qianxiang Wangjing is the operator of our renren.com website and holds the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our SNS, online advertising and online games business in China (other than in Shanghai Municipality), Qianxiang Changda is an online advertising company that holds the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our SNS services in China, and Beijing Nuomi is the operator of our nuomi.com website and holds the licenses and permits that we believe are necessary to conduct our social commerce business in China. 21 Table of Contents The second set of contractual arrangements is among our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Beijing Wole Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Wole Technology, and Wole Technology’s consolidated affiliated entity, Guangzhou Qianjun Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Qianjun Technology, and its shareholders. Qianjun Technology is the operator of our 56.com website and holds the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our online video services in China. Beijing Wole Shijie Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Wole Shijie, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Qianjun Technology and is the operator of our quanquan.net website. The third set of contractual arrangements is among our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Renren Games Network Technology Development (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Renren Network, and its consolidated affiliated entity, Shanghai Renren Games Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Renren Games, and Renren Games’s shareholders. Renren Games is the operator of our online games website and holds the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our online game services in China. Suzhou Sijifeng Internet Information Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Suzhou Sijifeng, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Renren Games and is the developer and provider of designs and other games-related technologies for Renren Games. Our contractual arrangements with Qianxiang Tiancheng, Qianjun Technology, Renren Games and their respective shareholders enable us to exercise effective control over Qianxiang Tiancheng, Qianjun Technology, Renren Games and their respective subsidiaries, and hence we treat Qianxiang Tiancheng, Qianjun Technology, Renren Games and their respective subsidiaries as our consolidated affiliated entities and consolidate their results. For a detailed discussion of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities.” On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, together with the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications, jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Games, or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice restates that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game-operating businesses in China via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in domestic online game operators through indirect ways such as establishing other joint venture companies or contractual or technical arrangements. However, the GAPP Notice does not provide any interpretation of the term “foreign investors” or make a distinction between foreign online game companies and companies with a corporate structure similar to ours (including those listed Chinese internet companies that focus on online game operation). Thus, it is unclear whether the GAPP will deem our corporate structure and operations to be in violation of these provisions. Based on the advice of TransAsia Lawyers, our PRC legal counsel, the corporate structure of our consolidated affiliated entities and our subsidiaries in China comply with all existing PRC laws and regulations. However, as there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations (including the MIIT Notice and the GAPP Notice described above), we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our corporate structure or any of the above contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could: · revoke the business and operating licenses of our subsidiaries, our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries; · discontinue or restrict any related-party transactions among our subsidiaries, our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries; · impose fines on us or impose additional conditions or requirements on us with which we may not be able to comply; · require us to revise our ownership structure or restructure our operations; and · restrict or prohibit our use of the proceeds of any additional public offering to finance our business and operations in China. 22 Table of Contents The imposition of any of these penalties may result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. If any of these penalties results in our inability to direct the activities of our consolidated affiliated entities and the subsidiaries that most significantly impact their economic performance, or results in our failure to receive the economic benefits from our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries, we may not be able to consolidate the consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries contributed in the aggregate 100%, 99.5% and 99.2%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. We rely on contractual arrangements with consolidated affiliated entities for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. Any failure by our affiliated entities or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities to operate our businesses in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C—Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements with Our Consolidated Affiliated Entities.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over these affiliated entities as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of our consolidated affiliated entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of each of these entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders of their obligations under their respective contracts to exercise control over our affiliated entities. Therefore, our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities may not be as effective in ensuring our control over our China operations as direct ownership would be. If our consolidated affiliated entities or their respective shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements of which they are a party, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce our rights under the contracts, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in our consolidated affiliated entities to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal action to compel them to perform their respective contractual obligations. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be severely and negatively affected. Contractual arrangements our subsidiaries have entered into with our consolidated affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or our consolidated affiliated entities owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions between related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our wholly owned subsidiaries in China and our consolidated affiliated entities in China do not represent arm’s-length prices and consequently adjust our consolidated affiliated entities’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions recorded by our consolidated affiliated entities for PRC tax purposes, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our consolidated affiliated entities for any unpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 23 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities include Ms. Jing Yang and Mr. James Jian Liu, who are the shareholders of Qianxiang Tiancheng, Mr. Sheng Liang and Ms. Juan Zhou, who are the shareholders of Qianjun Technology, and Mr. Chuan He and Mr. James Jian Liu, who are the shareholders of Renren Games. Ms. Yang is the wife of Mr. Joseph Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Liu is our executive director and chief operating officer. Mr. Liang is an employee of our company. Ms. Zhou is a vice president of our company. Mr. He is our senior vice president for games. Conflicts of interest may arise between the dual roles of Mr. Liu, Mr. Liang, Ms. Zhou and Mr. He as officers or employees of our company and as shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities. Conflicts of interest may also arise between the interests of Ms. Yang as a shareholder of Qianxiang Tiancheng and as the wife of our founder and chief executive officer. Furthermore, if Ms. Yang experiences domestic conflict with Mr. Chen, she may have little or no incentive to act in the interest of our company, and she may not perform her obligations under the contractual arrangements she has entered into with Qianxiang Shiji. Officers of our company owe a duty of loyalty and care to our company and to our shareholders as a whole under Cayman Islands law. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts arise, shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and these shareholders, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. There is also substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity to be paid by our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries, particularly Qianxiang Shiji, Wole Technology and Renren Network, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders and service any debt we may incur. If our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, wholly foreign-owned enterprises in the PRC such as Qianxiang Shiji, Wole Technology and Renren Network may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a wholly foreign-owned enterprises such as Qianxiang Shiji, Wole Technology and Renren Network are required to set aside at least 10% of their accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such a fund reaches 50% of their registered capital. At their discretion, they may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Our global income and the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries, dividends distributed to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, and gain realized by such shareholders or ADS holders, may be subject to PRC taxes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.” 24 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may restrict or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which may materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. If we decide to finance our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Due to the restrictions imposed on loans in foreign currencies extended to any PRC domestic companies, we are not likely to make such loans to our consolidated affiliated entities, which are PRC domestic companies. Further, we are not likely to finance the activities of our consolidated affiliated entities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory restrictions relating to foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises engaged in social networking services, online advertising, online games, online video and related businesses. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 19, 2010, known as Circular No. 59, which tightens the examination of the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from our initial public offering and requires that the settlement of net proceeds shall be in accordance with the description in the prospectus included in our registration statement on Form F-1 (Registration No. 333-173548), which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in connection with our initial public offering. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE Circular 142, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Changes in government policies or regulations may have material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real name social networking services, online games and online video businesses are subject to strict government regulations in the PRC. Under the current PRC regulatory scheme, a number of regulatory agencies, including the MIIT, the Ministry of Culture, the GAPP, the SARFT and the State Council Information Office jointly regulate all major aspects of the internet industry, including the SNS, online game and online video industries. Operators must obtain various government approvals and licenses prior to the commencement of SNS, online game and online video operations, including an internet content provider license, or ICP license, an online culture operating permit, a value-added telecommunication services license, an internet publishing license and an internet audio/video program transmission license. 25 Table of Contents We have obtained a value-added telecommunication service license, an ICP license, an online culture operating permit, and an online drug information license for online games and advertisements on our SNS website. In addition, Qianxiang Changda has obtained an internet publishing license, permitting it to engage in internet game publication activities. In connection with the corporate restructuring of our online games business, which was completed in March 2013, we have obtained an online culture operating permit and an ICP license for the online games business. We have filed with the GAPP and the Ministry of Culture certain online games that we developed and the imported games available on our SNS website, and will continue to make such filings for these types of games. However, we cannot assure you that our understanding of the applicability and scope of such filings and filing requirements is correct, as the interpretation and enforcement of the applicable laws and regulations by the GAPP and the Ministry of Culture are still evolving. If our current practices are challenged by the GAPP and any of our online games fail to be examined and filed by relevant authorities or are found to be in violation of applicable laws, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restrictions on our operations. We have obtained an ICP license for the social commerce services provided on our social commerce services website, nuomi.com. We have obtained an ICP license, internet audio/video program transmission license, online culture operating permit, internet drug information service permit, and a permit for radio and television program production and operation on our online video website, 56.com. If the PRC government promulgates new laws and regulations that require additional licenses or imposes additional restrictions on the operation of SNS, online games, social commerce, online video and/or other services we plan to launch, to the extent we may not be able to obtain these licenses, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate regulations restricting the types and content of advertisements that may be transmitted online, which could have a direct adverse impact on our business. Currently there is no law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment and other accessories, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and have monetary value and in some cases are sold among players for actual money. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service, a network crash or hacking activities. Currently, there is no PRC law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, there is uncertainty as to who is the legal owner of virtual assets, whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law, and whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our game players and held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on recent PRC court judgments, the courts have typically held online game operators liable for losses of virtual assets by game players, and in some cases have allowed online game operators to return the lost virtual items to game players in lieu of paying damages. Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or licenses or change our current business model. The issuance and use of “virtual currency” in the PRC has been regulated since 2007 in response to the growth of the online games industry in China. In January 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Culture, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling which has implications for the use of virtual currency. To curtail online games that involve online gambling, as well as address concerns that virtual currency could be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (i) prohibits online game operators from charging commissions in the form of virtual currency in relation to winning or losing of games; (ii) requires online game operators to impose limits on use of virtual currency in guessing and betting games; (iii) bans the conversion of virtual currency into real currency or property; and (iv) prohibits services that enable game players to transfer virtual currency to other players. In February 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular to further strengthen the oversight of internet cafes and online games. 26 Table of Contents On June 4, 2009, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Commerce jointly issued the Notice on the Strengthening of Administration on Online Game Virtual Currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice, regarding strengthening the administration of online game virtual currency. The Ministry of Culture issued the Interim Measures for Online Game Administration, effective August 1, 2010, which provide, among other things, that virtual currency issued by online game operators may be only used to exchange its own online game products and services and may not be used to pay for the products and services of other entities. We issue virtual currency to game players for them to purchase various virtual items or time units to be used in our online games. We have adjusted the content of our online games, but we cannot assure you that our adjustments will be sufficient to comply with the Virtual Currency Notice. Moreover, although we believe we do not offer online game virtual currency transaction services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. For example, certain virtual items we issue to users based on in-game milestones they achieve or time spent playing games are transferable and exchangeable for our virtual currency or the other virtual items we issue to users. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem such transfer or exchange to be a virtual currency transaction, then in addition to being deemed to be engaged in the issuance of virtual currency, we may also be deemed to be providing transaction platform services that enable the trading of such virtual currency. Simultaneously engaging in both of these activities is prohibited under the Virtual Currency Notice. In that event, we may be required to cease either our virtual currency issuance activities or such deemed “transaction service” activities and may be subject to certain penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice prohibits online game operators from setting game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players for the chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. The notice also prohibits game operators from issuing currency to game players through means other than purchases with legal currency. It is unclear whether these restrictions would apply to certain aspects of our online games. Although we believe that we do not engage in any of the above-mentioned prohibited activities, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours and deem such feature as prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice, thereby subjecting us to penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are required to pay U.S. taxes, the value of your investment in our company could be substantially reduced. If, pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions, a non-United States corporation, such as our company, acquires substantially all of the assets of a United States corporation, and after the acquisition 80% or more of the stock, by vote or value, of the non-United States corporation, excluding stock issued in a public offering related to the acquisition, is owned by former shareholders of the United States corporation by reason of their ownership of the United States corporation, the non-United States corporation will be considered a United States corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on our analysis of the facts related to our corporate restructuring in 2005 and 2006, we do not believe that we should be treated as a United States corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. However, as there is no direct authority on how the relevant rules of the Internal Revenue Code might apply to us, our company’s conclusion is not free from doubt. Therefore, our conclusion may be challenged by the United States tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional United States taxes could substantially reduce the value of your investment in our company. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the income tax consequences of purchasing, holding or disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we were to be treated as a United States domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Our operations may be adversely affected by the implementation of anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online games industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy,” three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing,” and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Online games operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. On July 1, 2011, the GAPP, the MIIT, the Ministry of Education and five other governmental authorities issued a Notice on Initializing the Verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games, or the Real-name Registration Notice, which took effect on October 1, 2011, to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and real-name registration. The Real-name Registration Notice’s main focus is to prevent minors from using an adult’s ID to play internet games and, accordingly, the Real-name Registration Notice imposes stringent punishments on online game operators that do not implement the required anti-fatigue and real-name registration measures properly and effectively. These restrictions could limit our ability to increase our online games business among minors. Furthermore, if these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, our online games business could be materially and adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets and operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In addition, in the past few years, the PRC government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. For example, China enacted an Anti-Monopoly Law that became effective on August 1, 2008. Because the Anti-Monopoly Law and related regulations have been in effect for only a few years, there have been very few court rulings or judicial or administrative interpretations on certain key concepts used in the law. As a result, there is uncertainty how the enforcement and interpretation of the new Anti-Monopoly Law may affect our business and operations. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of any of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet business and companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be violations of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the internet industry include, but are not limited to, the following: · We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including internet content provision services. This may significantly disrupt our business, subject us to sanctions, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. · There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet industry in China, including evolving licensing practices. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we have failed to obtain permits or licenses that applicable regulators may deem necessary for our operations or we may not be able to obtain or renew certain permits or licenses to maintain their validity. The major permits and licenses that could be involved include the ICP license, the online culture operating permit, the value-added telecommunication services operation permit, the internet publishing license and the internet audio/video program transmission license. · New laws and regulations may be promulgated that will regulate internet activities, including social networking services, online games, online advertising and online video businesses. If these new laws and regulations are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. On July 13, 2006, the MIIT, the predecessor of which is the Ministry of Information Industry, issued the Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. This notice prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to this notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication services operation permit or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Currently, our PRC consolidated affiliated entities own the related domain names and trademarks and hold the ICP licenses necessary to conduct our operations for websites in China. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we have obtained all the permits or licenses required for conducting our business in China or will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses if required by any new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to violate the existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of the internet industry. 29 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, Qianxiang Shiji, Wole Technology and Renren Network are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The M&A rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated regulations effective on September 8, 2006 that are commonly referred to as the M&A Rules. The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, as we had done in the acquisition of 56.com in October 2011. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 30 Table of Contents Certain regulations in the PRC may make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective in September 2006 and was amended in June 2009, established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. This regulation requires, among other things, that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council in August 2008, are triggered. According to the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises issued by the Ministry of Commerce in August 2011, mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in an industry related to national security are subject to strict review by the Ministry of Commerce. These rules also prohibit any transactions attempting to bypass such security review, including by controlling entities through contractual arrangements. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security. However, we cannot assure you that the Ministry of Culture or other government agencies will not publish interpretations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. We may grow our business in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore holding companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 75, issued on November 1, 2005. To further clarify and simplify the implementation of SAFE Circular 75, SAFE issued Implementing Rules Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 19 on May 20, 2011, which came into effect on July 1, 2011. These regulations require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents by virtue of their establishment or their maintaining a controlling interest in our company, and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Mr. Joseph Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, is not a PRC citizen, but resides in China and has established and maintains a major shareholding in our company. Based on our oral inquiry with the relevant local branch of SAFE, the requirements for registration under SAFE Circular 75 are not applicable to Mr. Chen. Mr. James Jian Liu, our executive director and chief operating officer, and a few other senior management personnel of our company, all of whom are PRC residents, became shareholders of our company as a result of the exercise of employee share options. Based on our inquiry with the relevant local branch of SAFE, any application to such local SAFE branch with respect to the registration of Mr. Liu and the other PRC resident shareholders’ holdings of shares in our offshore holding company under SAFE Circular 75 and related rules will not be officially accepted or examined because they became shareholders of our offshore holding company as a result of their exercise of employee share options. 31 Table of Contents However, we cannot conclude that SAFE or its local branch responsible for our PRC subsidiary’s foreign exchange registrations will not later alter their position on and interpretation of the applicability of these foreign exchange regulations to Mr. Chen, Mr. Liu or the other PRC resident shareholders of our company. In the event that the registration procedures set forth in these foreign exchange regulations becomes applicable to Mr. Chen, Mr. Liu or any of the PRC resident shareholders of our company, we will urge these individuals to file necessary registrations and amendments as required under SAFE Circular 75 and related rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of these individuals can successfully file or update any applicable registration or obtain the necessary approval required by these foreign exchange regulations. We can provide no assurance that we will in the future continue to be informed of the identities of all PRC residents holding direct or indirect interests in our company. The failure or inability of such individuals to comply with the registration procedures set forth in these regulations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrictions on our cross-border investment activities or our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans from, our company, or prevent us from making distributions or paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, as these foreign exchange regulations are still relatively new and their interpretation and implementation has been constantly evolving, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Any lack of requisite permits for any of our online video content may expose us to regulatory sanctions. In 2009, SARFT released a Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Audio/Video Content, or the SARFT Notice. The SARFT Notice reiterated, among other things, that all movies and television shows released or published online must be in compliance with applicable regulations concerning the administration of radio, film and television. In particular, movies and television shows, whether produced in the PRC or overseas, must be pre-approved by SARFT prior to their release, and distributors of such movies and television shows must obtain an applicable permit prior to their release. We rely on written representations from the content providers regarding the SARFT approval status of the content licensed to us. Under our content licensing agreements, the content providers generally represent and warrant that (i) they have obtained required approvals and all required permits under applicable laws with respect to the content that they provide and (ii) the content itself, as well as the authorization or rights granted to us, neither breach any applicable laws or regulations nor impair any third party rights. In the event such approvals and permits are not obtained, applicable laws or regulations are breached or third party rights are impaired, we maintain the right to delete such content without any notification to the content providers. Further, if the content providers breach the contract in such a way that the contract can no longer be performed, we maintain the right to terminate the contract and, under the contract, the content providers is required to indemnify us for any actual loss resulting from such breach. However, we cannot guarantee that the remedies provided under these contracts will be sufficient to compensate us for potential regulatory sanctions imposed by SARFT due to violations of the approval and permit requirements, nor can we ensure that any such sanctions will not adversely affect either the general availability of video content on our website or our reputation. In addition, such risks may persist due to ambiguities and uncertainties relating to the implementation and enforcement of the SARFT Notice. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee share ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee share ownership plans or share option plans of an overseas publicly listed company. In March, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules. 32 Table of Contents In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Matters for Domestic Individuals Participating in the Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Notice. This Stock Option Notice replaced the previous Stock Option Rules. The Stock Option Notice simplifies the requirements and procedures for the registration of stock incentive plan participants, especially in respect of the required application documents and the absence of strict requirements on offshore and onshore custodian banks, as were stipulated in the earlier Stock Option Rules. Under these rules, for PRC resident individuals who participate in stock incentive plans of overseas publicly-listed companies, which includes employee stock ownership plans, stock option plans and other incentive plans permitted by relevant laws and regulations, a PRC domestic qualified agent or the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company must, among other things, file, on behalf of such resident, an application with SAFE or its local counterpart to obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the stock holding or share option exercises as PRC residents may not directly use oversea funds to purchase shares or exercise share options. In addition, within three months after any substantial changes to any such stock incentive plan, including for example any changes due to merger or acquisition or changes to the domestic or overseas custodian agent, the domestic agent must update the registration with SAFE. As our company became listed on the NYSE in May 2011, we and our PRC citizen employees who participate in an employee share ownership plan or a share option plan are subject to these regulations. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Stock Options Plans.” We face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report to the relevant tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions, and the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the relevant tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our private equity financing transactions where non-resident investors were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our non-resident investors in such transactions may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under the general anti-avoidance rule of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investments in us. 33 Table of Contents Discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or imposition of any additional taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Enterprise Income Tax Law applies a uniform statutory income tax rate of 25% to enterprises in China. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and the implementation rules promulgated under it provide that “software enterprises” enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. Qianxiang Wangjing has been qualified as a “software enterprise” by the Beijing Municipal Commission of Science and Technology and, accordingly, enjoyed an enterprise income tax rate of 0% for 2010, enjoyed a tax reduction of 50% for 2011 and 2012, and will enjoy a tax reduction of 50% for 2013. Qianxiang Changda has been qualified as a “software enterprise” by the Beijing Municipal Commission of Science and Technology and, accordingly, was exempt from enterprise income tax rate in 2011 and 2012, and will enjoy a tax reduction of 50% for 2013, 2014 and 2015. There are uncertainties surrounding the interpretation and implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules. We cannot assure you that the qualification of Qianxiang Wangjing or Qianxiang Changda as a “software enterprise” by the relevant tax authority will not be challenged in the future by their supervising authorities and be repealed, or that there will not be future implementation rules that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law. If the tax benefits that each of Qianxiang Wangjing and Qianxiang Changda enjoy as a “software enterprise” are revoked prior to expiration of its term, and we are otherwise unable to qualify Qianxiang Wangjing or Qianxiang Changda for other income tax exemptions or reductions, our effective income tax rate will be adversely affected. In addition, we may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax. As a result, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our global income and the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries, dividends distributed to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, and gain recognized by such shareholders or ADS holders, may be subject to PRC taxes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. SAT Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Tax—PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” Although SAT Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. In such case, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the PRC enterprise income taxation law applicable to us prior to January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises in China, such as Qianxiang Shiji, Wole Technology and Renren Network, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, however, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors, which are non-PRC tax resident enterprises without an establishment in China, or whose income has no connection with their institutions and establishments inside China, are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through contractual arrangements between our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities. As long as our offshore holding companies are considered non-PRC resident enterprises, dividends that they respectively receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Tax—Dividends Withholding Tax.” 34 Table of Contents As uncertainties remain regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, we cannot assure you that if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would not be subject to any PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Similarly, any gain recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders on the sale of shares or ADSs, as applicable, may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders, or on gain recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders, such investors’ investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP, as auditors of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspection by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and applicable professional standards. Since the PRC is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC regulatory authorities, the operations in the PRC of our auditor, similar to the PRC operations of other independent registered public accounting firms, is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside the PRC have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in the PRC prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of the PRC that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China. Recently, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of five audit firms, including our auditors. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit workpapers, to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. As the administrative proceedings are ongoing, it is impossible to determine their outcome or the consequences thereof to us. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. However, if the administrative judge were to find in favor of the SEC under the proceeding and depending upon the remedies sought by the SEC, these audit firms could be barred from practicing before the SEC. As a result, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations, including our company, may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in their delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on May 4, 2011, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$2.60 to US$18.01 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 22, 2013 was US$2.60 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · regulatory developments in our industry affecting us, our advertisers or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the quality of our services or those of our competitors; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that provide SNS, online games, online advertising or social commerce services or other internet companies; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes or revisions of our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the SNS, online game, online advertising and social commerce industries or the internet industry in general; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions to or departures of our senior management; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; and · sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies and companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Further, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our ADS price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, most of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. Our dual-class voting structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. We have a dual-class voting structure which consists of Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Subject to certain exceptions, in respect of matters requiring the votes of shareholders, holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to ten votes per share. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof, while Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. 36 Table of Contents We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering in May 2011. Mr. Joseph Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer and SB Pan Pacific Corporation are our only shareholders who hold Class B ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to the two classes of ordinary shares, Mr. Chen and SB Pan Pacific Corporation beneficially own approximately 56.5% and 33.9%, respectively, of the aggregate voting power of our company as of March 31, 2013 and have controlling power over matters requiring shareholder approval, subject to certain exceptions. As between Mr. Chen and SB Pan Pacific Corporation, the approvals of SB Pan Pacific Corporation are required for certain important matters relating to our company. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Ordinary Shares—Voting Rights.” This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for return on your investment. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiary, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2013, we have 1,136,397,903 ordinary shares outstanding, comprised of (i) 431,017,239 Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs, which ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act, (ii) 299,992,214 Class A ordinary shares not represented by ADSs, which are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, and (iii) 405,388,450 Class B ordinary shares which, following conversion to Class A ordinary shares by the holder of the Class B ordinary shares, are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. Certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the form of ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. 37 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and among our company, Citibank, N.A., as depositary, and the holders and beneficial owners of American depositary shares, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we may convene a shareholders’ meeting upon seven (7) calendar days’ notice. If we give timely notice to the depositary under the terms of the deposit agreement (30 days’ notice), the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, although you may directly exercise your right to vote by withdrawing the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, you may not receive sufficient advance notice of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting to withdraw the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. 38 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of such directors and officers are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although a final and conclusive judgment in the federal or state courts of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of taxes, fines, penalties or similar charges, and which was neither obtained by fraud or in proceedings contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands, may be subject to enforcement proceedings as a debt in the courts of the Cayman Islands under the common law doctrine of obligation without any re-examination of the merits of the underlying dispute. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2012 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. Our two largest shareholders are able to significantly influence our actions over important corporate matters, which may deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares and reduce the price of our ADSs. As of March 31, 2013, Mr. Joseph Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns approximately 66.7% of our outstanding Class B ordinary shares, representing in aggregate 56.5% of our total voting power, and SB Pan Pacific Corporation beneficially owns approximately 37.0% of our outstanding Class A ordinary shares and approximately 33.3% of our outstanding Class B ordinary shares, representing in aggregate 33.9% of our total voting power. As between Mr. Chen and SB Pan Pacific Corporation, the approvals of SB Pan Pacific Corporation are required for certain important matters relating to our company. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Ordinary Shares—Voting Rights.” Consequently, these shareholders are able to significantly influence matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have the dual effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and reducing the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including those who purchase ADSs. In addition, these persons could divert business opportunities away from us to themselves or others. 39 Table of Contents We may be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse United States income tax consequences. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. A non-United States corporation will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of its gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income, or (ii) 50% or more of the value of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. Passive income is any income that would be foreign personal holding company income under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including, without limitation, dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities, net gains from the sale or exchange of property producing such income, net gains from commodity transactions, net foreign currency gains and income from notional principal contracts. We believe we were a PFIC for the taxable years ending December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012. Our PFIC status for the current taxable year will not be determinable until after the close of the current taxable year. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets and, because, as a public company, the value of our assets for this purpose is determined in part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and outstanding ordinary shares, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares and you are a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E—Additional Information—Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”), you generally will become subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and special U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements, unless you make a timely “mark-to-market” election to mitigate some of the applicable consequences. For more information on the U.S. federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E—Additional Information—Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 