Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by investors before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed as a consequence of any of the following risks and uncertainties. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations, or result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and potential clients may have concerns regarding the effectiveness in the future of our business model. If companies do not continue to subscribe to our solution, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We were incorporated in July 2008. We acquired our first patent assets in September 2008 and sold our first membership in October 2008. Therefore, we have not only a very limited operating history, but also a very limited track record in executing our business model. Our future success depends on acceptance of our solution by companies we target to become clients. Our efforts to sell our solution to new companies may not continue to be successful. In particular, because we are a relatively new company with a limited operating history, companies may have concerns regarding our viability. Our limited operating history may also make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our emerging industry, certain of our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Many of the factors that cause these fluctuations are outside of our control. The amount we spend to acquire patent assets and the timing of those acquisitions may result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our capital expenditures, and the amount and timing of our membership sales may result in significant fluctuations in our cash flow on a quarterly basis. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition to the factors described above, other factors that may affect our operating results include: • increases in the prices we need to pay to acquire patent assets; • increases in operating expenses, including those attributable to additional headcount and the costs of new business initiatives; • increased in operating expenses attributable to the formation and management of our risk retention group; • non-renewals from existing clients for any reason; • loss of clients, including through acquisitions or consolidations; • changes in our subscription fee rates or the pricing policies of our competitors; 11 Table of Contents • our inability to acquire patent assets that are being asserted or may be asserted against our clients due to lack of availability, unfavorable pricing terms or otherwise; • changes in patent law and regulations and other legislation, as well as United States Patent and Trademark Office procedures or court rulings, that reduce the value of our solution to our existing and potential clients; • our lengthy and unpredictable membership sales cycle, including delays in potential clients’ decisions whether to subscribe to our solution; • changes in the accounting treatment associated with our acquisitions of patent assets, how we amortize those patent assets and how we recognize revenue under subscription agreements; • lower subscription fees from clients where the annual subscription fee decreases due to declining operating income or revenue of such clients; • our inability to effectively develop and implement new solutions that meet client requirements in a timely manner; • decreases in our clients’ and prospective clients’ costs of litigating patent infringement claims; • our inability to retain key personnel; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new competitors or substantial discounting of services that are viewed by our target market as competitive to ours; • gains or losses realized as a result of our selling patents, including upon the exercise by any of our clients of their limited right to purchase certain of our patent assets for defensive purposes in the event of a patent infringement suit brought against such client by a third party; and • adverse economic conditions in the industries that we serve, particularly as they affect the intellectual property risk management and/or litigation budgets of our existing or potential clients. If our operating results in a particular quarter do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could be substantially affected. In particular, if our operating results fall below expectations, our stock price could decline substantially. The market for our patent risk management solution is immature, and if our solution is not widely accepted or is accepted more slowly than we expect, our operating results will be adversely affected. We have derived substantially all of our revenue from the sale of memberships to our patent risk management solution and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, widespread acceptance of this solution is critical to our future success. The market for patent risk management solutions is new and it is uncertain whether these solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend, to a substantial extent, on the willingness of companies of all sizes to purchase and renew memberships as a way to reduce their patent litigation costs. If companies do not perceive the cost-savings benefits of patent risk management solutions, then wide market adoption of our solution will not develop, or it may develop more slowly than we expect. Either scenario would adversely affect our operating results in a significant way. Factors that may negatively affect wide market acceptance of our solution, as well as our ability to obtain new clients and renew existing clients, include: • uncertainty about our ability to significantly reduce patent litigation costs for a particular company; • reduced assertions from NPEs or decreased patent licensing fees owed to NPEs; • limitations on the ability of NPEs to bring patent claims or limitations on the potential damages recoverable from such claims; • reduced cost to our clients of defending patent assertion claims; 12 Table of Contents • lack of perceived relevance and value in our existing patent asset portfolio by existing or potential clients; • concerns by existing or potential clients about our future ability to obtain rights to patent assets that are being or may be asserted against them; • reduced incentives to renew memberships if clients have vested in perpetual licenses in all patent assets that they believe are materially relevant to their businesses; • lack of sufficient interest by mid- and small-sized companies in our solution; • reduced incentive for companies to become clients because we do not assert our patent assets in litigation; • concerns that we might change our current business model and assert our patent assets in litigation; • budgetary limitations for existing or potential clients; and • the belief that adequate coverage for the risks and expenses we attempt to reduce is available from alternative products or services. We have limited experience with respect to our subscription pricing model, and if the prices we charge for memberships are unacceptable to our existing or potential clients, our revenue and operating results could experience volatility or decline. We have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate metrics for establishing the annual subscription fees for our patent risk management solution. If the market for our solution fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, or if competitors introduce new solutions that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our memberships or attract new clients at favorable prices based on the same pricing model we have historically used. In the future, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our subscription fee rates, which could harm our operating results. If we introduce a higher fee schedule in the future, it may be more difficult for us to attract new clients. In order to attract clients, in certain cases we have previously offered, and may in the future offer, discounts or other contractual incentives to clients who execute multi-year subscription agreements or who make client referrals. We have very limited flexibility to change the pricing of our solution for existing clients and may not be able to respond effectively to changes in our market. This limited flexibility could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Under our subscription agreements, our annual subscription fee is based on a published fee schedule applicable to all of our clients that join our network while that fee schedule is in effect. Clients are able to renew their memberships perpetually under the fee schedule in effect at the time that they joined our network with periodic adjustments by us only based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. This means that any increases to our fee schedule apply only to clients that join after such increase. Accordingly, we have limited ability to change the economics of our business model with respect to existing clients in response to changes in the market in which we operate. This limited flexibility could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, if we increase our operating expenses as a result of changes in our market, we would have very limited ability to increase the subscription fees we charge to our existing clients as an offset to the increased operating expenses, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our membership sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our membership sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our membership sales are difficult to predict and will vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our cash flow to fluctuate significantly. Because we operate in a relatively new and unproven market, our membership sales efforts involve educating potential clients about the benefit of our solution, including potential cost savings to a company. 13 Table of Contents Potential clients typically undergo a lengthy decision-making process that has, in the past, generally resulted in a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle. We spend substantial time, effort and resources in our membership sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any membership sales. In addition, subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. As a result of these factors, our membership sales in any period are difficult to predict and will likely vary substantially between periods, which may cause our cash flow to fluctuate significantly between periods. The success of our business will increasingly depend on clients renewing their subscription agreements, but we do not have an adequate operating history to predict the rate of membership renewals. Any significant decline in our membership renewals could harm our operating results. Our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their initial membership period. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. The weighted-average term of our subscription agreements in effect as of December 31, 2011 was 2.8 years. As our overall membership base grows, we expect our renewal rate to decline compared to our historical rate. Our clients may choose not to renew their memberships or, if they do renew, may choose to do so for shorter terms or seek a reduced subscription fee. Many of our subscription agreements provide for automatic one-year renewal periods. As a result, as more of our clients are in renewal periods, the weighted-average term of our subscription agreements may decrease. If our clients do not renew their subscriptions or renew for shorter terms or if we allow them to renew at reduced subscription fees, our revenue may decline and our business may be adversely affected. Upon initial subscription, our clients receive a term license for the period of their membership to the patent assets in our portfolio at the time of subscription. In addition, clients receive term licenses to substantially all of the patent assets we acquire during the period of their membership. Our subscription agreements also include a vesting provision that converts a client’s term licenses into perpetual licenses on a delayed, rolling basis as long as the company remains a client. Accordingly, clients who continue to subscribe to our solution receive perpetual licenses to an increasing number of our patent assets over time. If we are unable to adequately show clients that we are continuing to obtain additional patent assets that are being or may be asserted against them, clients may choose not to renew their subscriptions once they have vested into a perpetual license in all patent assets they believe are materially relevant to their businesses. Our subscription agreements generally provide our clients with a right to terminate their membership if we fail to meet certain conditions. If we fail to meet those conditions and clients elect to terminate their subscription agreements, our operating results will be harmed. Until recently, our form of subscription agreement provided that we will use commercially reasonable efforts to spend at least a specified minimum amount each year to acquire patent assets related broadly to information technology. If we fail to meet this standard, the clients whose agreements contain this standard have the right to terminate their memberships. In addition, a select number of our subscription agreements also provide that if we fail in any year to acquire patent assets broadly related to information technology worth at least a specified amount that is lower than the minimum amount generally included in our subscription agreements, then those clients have the right to terminate their memberships, but not get a refund. If we fail to meet these standards and clients elect to terminate their memberships, our operating results will be harmed. Because we generally recognize revenue from membership subscriptions over the term of the membership, upturns or downturns in membership sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. As a result, our future operating results may be difficult to predict. We generally recognize subscription fees received from clients ratably over the period of time to which those fees apply. Most of our clients are invoiced annually, and thus their fees are recognized as revenue over the course of 12 months. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter will not be 14 Table of Contents fully reflected in that quarter’s revenue and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure quickly to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of either significant downturns in membership sales or rapid market acceptance of our solution may not be fully reflected in our results of operations in the period in which such events occur. Our membership subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as subscription fees from new clients must generally be recognized over the applicable membership term. Our subscription fees from clients may decrease due to factors outside of our control. Any reduction in subscription fees could harm our business and operating results. Each client’s subscription fee is reset yearly based on its reported revenue and operating income measured as of the end of its last fiscal year. If a client who is not already paying the minimum due under our fee schedule experiences reduced operating results, its subscription fee for the next year will decline. As a result, our revenue stream is affected by conditions outside of our control that impact the operating results of our clients. Our fee schedule is capped for each of our clients. As a result, if one of our clients acquires another client, our future revenue would be reduced as a result of our fee schedule being applied to the combined entity rather than to each entity separately. Any reduction in subscription fees could harm our business and operating results. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could reduce the value of our solution to clients or potential clients and harm our business and operating results. If Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or courts implement additional legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect the operating results and business model for NPEs. This, in turn, could reduce the value of our solution to our current and potential clients. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on the number of defendants that can be joined in a single patent litigation action, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards and new procedures for invalidating patents, increased difficulty for parties making patent assertions to obtain injunctions, reductions in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect an NPE’s ability to assert its patent rights successfully, decrease the revenue associated with asserting or licensing an NPE’s patent rights and increase the cost of bringing patent enforcement actions. As a result, assertions and the threat of assertions by NPEs may decrease. If this occurs, companies may seek to resolve patent claims on an individual basis and be less willing to subscribe to our solution or renew their memberships. Furthermore, even if companies are interested in subscribing to our solution or maintaining their memberships, companies may be unwilling to pay the subscription fees that we propose. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect to our business and operating results. If we are unable either to identify patent assets that are being asserted or that could be asserted against existing and potential clients or to obtain such assets at prices that are economically supportable within our business model, we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient clients and our operating results would be harmed. Our ability to attract new clients and renew the subscription agreements of existing clients depends on our ability to identify patent assets that are being asserted or that could be asserted against our existing or potential clients. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately identify those types of patent assets on an ongoing basis and, even if identified, that we will be able to acquire rights to those patent assets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. As new technological advances occur, some or all of the patent assets we have acquired may become less valuable or obsolete before we have had the opportunity to obtain significant value from those assets. Our approach to acquiring patent assets generally involves acquiring ownership or a license at a fixed price. Other companies, such as NPEs, often offer contingent payments to sellers of patents that may provide the seller 15 Table of Contents the opportunity to receive greater amounts in the future for the sale of its patents as compared to the fixed price we generally pay. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively for the acquisition of certain patent assets. If clients do not perceive that the patent assets we acquire are relevant to their businesses, we will have difficulty attracting new clients and renewing existing clients, and our operating results will be harmed. Similarly, if clients are not satisfied with the amount we deploy to acquire patent assets, they may choose not to renew their subscriptions. These risks are greater if we elect to invest a significant amount of our capital in one or more acquisitions of patent assets. We may not be able to compete effectively against others to attract new clients or acquire patent assets. Any failure to compete effectively could harm our business and results of operations. In our efforts to attract new clients and retain existing clients, we compete primarily against established patent risk management strategies employed by those companies. Companies can choose from a variety of other strategies to attempt to manage their patent risk, including internal buying or licensing programs, cross-licensing arrangements, patent-buying consortiums or other patent-buying pools and engaging legal counsel to defend against patent assertions. As a result, we spend considerable resources educating our existing and prospective clients on the potential benefits of our solution and the value and cost savings it may provide. In addition to competing for new clients, we also compete to acquire patent assets. Our primary competitors in the market for patent assets include other entities that seek to accumulate patent assets, including NPEs such as Acacia Research, Altitude Capital Partners, Coller IP, Intellectual Ventures, Millennium Partners and Rembrandt IP Management, along with patent-buying consortiums such as Allied Security Trust. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial resources than we have. In addition, many NPEs that compete with us to acquire patent assets have complicated corporate structures that include a large number of subsidiaries, so it is difficult for us to know who the ultimate parent entity is and how much capital the related entities have available to acquire patent assets. We also face competition for patent assets from operating companies, including operating companies that are current or prospective clients. We expect to face more direct competition in the future from other established and emerging companies. In addition, as a relatively new company in the patent risk management market, we have limited insight into trends that may develop and affect our business. As a result, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, making us unable to compete effectively against others. Our current or potential competitors vary widely in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and a larger customer base and sales and marketing teams. The competition we face now and in the future could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against our current or future competitors, and our failure to do so could seriously harm our business. Our acquisitions of patent assets are time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions of patent assets are time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of the acquisition agreements tend to be very heavily negotiated. As a result, we incur significant operating expenses during the negotiations even where the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. Even if we successfully acquire particular patent assets, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs. While we conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patent assets we are considering for acquisition, we may 16 Table of Contents acquire patent assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interests in the patent assets and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets. We occasionally identify patent assets that cost more than we are prepared to spend with our own capital resources or that may be relevant only to a very small number of clients. In these circumstances, we may structure and coordinate a transaction in which certain of our clients contribute funds that are in addition to their subscription fees in order to acquire those patent assets. These structured acquisitions are complex and can be large and high profile. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent assets. These higher costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our roles in structuring the acquisition and managing the acquisition entity, if one is used, may expose us to financial and reputational risks. Our business model is new and complex, requiring estimates and judgments by our management. Our estimates and judgments are subject to changes that could adversely affect our operating results. Our patent risk management business model is new and therefore our accounting and tax treatment has limited precedent. The determination of patent asset amortization expense for financial and income tax reporting requires estimates and judgments on the part of management. Some of our patent asset acquisitions are complex, requiring additional estimates and judgments on the part of our management. From time to time, we evaluate our estimates and judgments. However, such estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise that lead us to change our estimates or judgments. If this or any other changes occur, our operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if the accounting or tax treatment is challenged, we may have to spend considerable time and expense defending our position and we may be unable to successfully defend our accounting or tax treatment, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We plan to substantially increase our operating expenses to expand our operations, and those increased expenses may negatively impact our profitability. We expect to significantly increase future expenditures to develop and expand our business, including making substantial expenditures to acquire patent assets and develop new solutions. One of those new solutions, the issuance of insurance policies by our risk retention group to cover the costs of NPE patent claims, may cause us to incur substantial additional operating expenses. Our efforts to develop this and other new solutions will result in an increase in our operating expenses with no assurance that such solutions will result in additional revenue that is sufficient to offset the additional expenses we incur. We also plan to incur additional operating expenses as we hire new personnel, including employees for client relations, patent research and analysis, development of reporting systems and general and administrative functions. From January 1 through December 31, 2011, our headcount grew from 66 to 110 employees. Because we intend to continue to hire aggressively, we expect our operating expenses to increase substantially. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If we are not successful in generating additional revenue that is sufficient to offset these operating expense increases, our operating results may be harmed. If we are unable to successfully expand our membership base to include mid- and small-size companies, we may not be able to maintain our growth and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Many of our current clients are very large companies. The number of companies of that size is limited, so in order for us to continue our growth, we need to expand our membership base to include mid- and small-size companies. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in those efforts. Those companies often have more limited budgets available for solutions of the type we offer compared to larger companies. Those companies may 17 Table of Contents also request solutions that we do not currently offer. They may also have concerns that we will focus our patent acquisition efforts on patent assets that are of more benefit to our larger clients who pay us higher subscription fees. If we are unable to successfully expand our membership base to include more mid- and small-size companies, our growth may slow, and our business may be harmed. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of clients, and if we are not able to obtain membership renewals from these clients, our revenue may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of clients. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2011, our 10 highest revenue generating clients accounted for approximately 31% of our total revenue. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to come from a relatively small number of clients for the foreseeable future. If any of these clients choose not to renew their memberships, or if our subscription fees from them decline, our revenue may correspondingly decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enhance our current solution or to develop or acquire new solutions to provide additional value to our clients and potential clients, we may not be able to maintain our growth, and our business may be harmed. In order to attract new clients and retain existing clients, we need to enhance and improve our existing solution and introduce new solutions that meet the needs of our clients. We have in the past, and may in the future, seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our service offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We have established a risk retention group to offer insurance to our clients to help manage their exposure to patent infringement claims brought by NPEs. We are also currently developing programs to facilitate joint defense agreements and cross-licensing arrangements among clients that pay us additional fees to participate in those arrangements. The development and implementation of new solutions will continue to require substantial time and resources, as well as require us to operate businesses that would be new to our organization. These or any other new solutions may not be introduced in a timely manner or at all. If we do introduce these or any other solutions, we may be unable to implement such solutions in a cost-effective manner, achieve wide market acceptance, meet client expectations or generate revenue sufficient to recoup the cost of developing such solutions. Any new solutions we introduce may expose us to additional laws, regulations and risks. If we are unable to develop these or other solutions successfully and enhance our existing solution to meet client requirements or expectations, we may not be able to attract or retain clients, and our business may be harmed. We are investing significant management time and resources into developing products designed to provide insurance against NPE patent claims. We do not have prior experience in designing or providing insurance products. If we are not successful in launching and selling these insurance products, we will not realize the anticipated benefit of these investments, which could have an adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business may be harmed. We are investing a significant amount of management time and financial resources in the development of products designed to provide insurance against NPE patent claims. We have provided capital to develop and initially operate this business. We do not have prior experience in designing insurance products, forming or operating an insurance business, attracting policyholders or establishing the pricing or terms of insurance policies. We cannot assure you that our patent insurance products will appeal to a significant number of our existing clients or attract new clients. If we are unsuccessful in implementing this business, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments of capital and management attention, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and growth prospects and our business may be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Following the launch of insurance products for NPE patent claims, we now face the risks associated with operating an insurance business. If we fail to manage these risks, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We now offer insurance products for NPE patent claims, and therefore face new risks associated with the operation of an insurance business. We have no prior experience in operating an insurance business, which includes assuming underwriting risk and setting premiums. There are many estimates and forecasts involved in predicting underwriting risk and setting premiums, many of which are subject to substantial uncertainty. If we do not estimate our underwriting risks and set our premiums successfully, we may incur larger losses on our policies than we expect, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the insurance market is highly regulated, so operation of an insurance business will expose us to additional laws and regulations. Compliance with such laws and regulations may be costly, which could affect our results of operations. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and we plan to continue to grow our operations to support our current solution and the development of new solutions. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have substantially expanded our overall business, headcount and operations in recent periods. We plan to expand our operations and headcount in the future in order to support our efforts to increase our membership base, continue to acquire valuable patent assets and develop additional solutions. Further, increases in our membership base could create challenges in our ability to provide our solutions and support our clients. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures. As a result, we may be unable to manage our business effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our operating results. If we are not perceived as a trusted defensive patent aggregator, our ability to gain wide market acceptance will be harmed, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our reputation, which depends on earning and maintaining the trust of existing and potential clients, is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control and costly or impossible to remediate. For our business to be successful, we must continue to educate potential clients about our role as a trusted intermediary in the patent market. If our reputation is harmed, we may have more difficulty attracting new clients and retaining existing clients, and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may become involved in patent or other litigation proceedings related to our clients. Our involvement could cause us to expend significant resources. It could also require us to disclose information related to our clients, which could cause such clients not to renew their subscriptions with us. The patent market is heavily impacted by litigation. As a result, we may be required, by subpoena or otherwise, to participate in patent or other litigation proceedings related to our clients. Our participation in any such proceedings could require us to expend significant resources and could also be perceived as adverse to the interests of our clients or potential clients if we are required to disclose any information about our clients that we have gathered in the course of their memberships. These additional expenditures and potential disclosures could make it more difficult for us to attract new clients and retain existing clients, and our results of operations could be harmed. For example, on March 7, 2012, a complaint was filed against the Company and some of its clients. The complaint alleges that the Defendants violated federal antitrust law, California antitrust law and California unfair competition law. The plaintiff seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. Because the case is at a very early stage, the Company is not currently able to determine whether there is a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred nor can it estimate the range of the potential loss that may result from this litigation. 19 Table of Contents Interpretations of current laws and the passage of future laws could harm our business and operating results. Because of our limited operating history and our presence in an emerging industry, the application to us of existing United States and foreign laws is unclear. Many laws do not contemplate or address the specific issues associated with our patent risk management solution or other products and services we may provide in the future. It is possible that courts or other governmental authorities will interpret existing laws regulating risk management and insurance, competition and antitrust practices, taxation, the practice of law and patent usage and transfers in a manner that is inconsistent with our business practices. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed if our operations are found to be in violation of any existing laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us. Additionally, existing laws and regulations may restrict our ability to deliver services to our clients, limit our ability to grow and cause us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Even if our business practices are ultimately not affected, we may incur significant cost to defend our actions, incur negative publicity and suffer substantial diversion of management time and effort. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we face risks from laws that could be passed in the future. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain or protect our patent assets or other intellectual property rights could impair our ability to attract or retain clients and maintain our brand and could harm our business and operating results. Our business is dependent on our ability to acquire patent assets that are valuable to our existing and potential clients. Following the acquisition of patent assets, we spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of those assets by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In some cases, the patent assets we acquire include patent applications which require us to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. If we fail to maintain or prosecute our patent assets properly, the value of those assets to our clients would be reduced or eliminated, and our business would be harmed. We might require additional capital to support our business growth and future patent asset acquisitions, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to acquire patent assets, develop new solutions or enhance our existing solution, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit agreements to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, we may not attract new clients and our business and operating results may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our solution and is an important element in attracting new clients. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Brand promotion activities may not generate client awareness or yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract or retain clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan, which could harm our future growth and operating results. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers or other key management personnel that require them to remain our employees. Therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business. Our inability to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified employees would harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and marketing, managerial and administrative personnel. In particular, our ability to grow our revenue is dependent on our ability to hire personnel that can identify and acquire valuable patent assets and sign up new clients. Competition for highly skilled sales, business development and technical individuals is intense, and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in some areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. If we fail to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Weak global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our solution or fees payable under our subscription agreements, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the demand for our solution. Furthermore, if our clients experience reduced operating income or revenues as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, it would reduce their subscription fees because those fees are generally reset annually based on the clients’ then-current operating income or revenue. If the subscription fees payable under our subscription agreement are reduced substantially, it would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our client offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • potential loss of key employees; • additional legal, financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, cash management and financial reporting; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. We have incurred significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance efforts. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market, impose additional requirements on public companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements for The Nasdaq Stock Market provide that listed companies must satisfy, among other things, certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to satisfy these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time consuming and costly. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have internal financial and accounting controls and procedures adequate to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We need to hire additional accounting 22 Table of Contents and financial staff, improve our existing controls and implement new processes. We cannot be certain that our actions to improve our internal controls over financial reporting will be sufficient, or that we will be able to implement our planned processes and procedures in a timely manner. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to sanctions or investigations by The Nasdaq Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, make us ineligible for short form resale registrations or result in the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, any of which could further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. Furthermore, implementing any appropriate changes to our internal control over financial reporting may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, may take a significant period of time to complete and may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These changes, however, may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal control over financial reporting is inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. While neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm have identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be subsequently identified. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and may have an effect on our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations, including the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, patent assets, other investments, income taxes, litigation and other intangibles, and other contingencies. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. In addition, actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to risks of natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or widespread illness at our domestic and international locations, any one of which could result in a business stoppage and negatively affect our operating results. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facility, computer systems and personnel, which are primarily located in the San Francisco Bay Area. The San Francisco Bay Area is in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. Our facility and transportation for our employees are susceptible to 23 Table of Contents damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters such as fires, floods and similar events. Should earthquakes or other catastrophes such as fires, floods, power outages, communication failures or similar events disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business, which stoppage could have a negative effect on our operating results. Acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war could also have a negative effect at our international and domestic facilities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future, and you might not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. Since our initial public offering in May 2011, our stock price has traded as high as $31.41 per share and as low as $11.97 per share. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history and an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained in the future. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others such as: • variations in our financial condition and operating results; • adoption or modification of laws, regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business, including those related to the enforcement of patent claims; • announcements of technological innovations, new products and services, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • addition or loss of significant clients; • recruitment or departure of members of our Board of Directors, management team or other key personnel; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or resulting from inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; and • the opening or closing of our employee trading window. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the changes in the operating performance of the companies whose stock is experiencing those price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our three largest stockholders and our directors and executive officers, in the aggregate, own approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock and will be able to exercise substantial control over all matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership limits your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2011, affiliates of Index Ventures, affiliates of Charles River Ventures and KPCB Holdings, Inc. each beneficially owns approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock, and our directors 24 Table of Contents and executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. In addition, each of Index Ventures, Charles River Ventures and KPCB Holdings, Inc. currently has a representative on our Board of Directors. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. A limited number of securities analysts currently publish research reports on us. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of shares by existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders, particularly our directors and executive officers and the venture capital funds affiliated with our current directors, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or are perceived by the public market as intending to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of December 31, 2011, some of our existing stockholders have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC approximately 33,600,000 shares of our common stock. If we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. In addition, shares that are subject to outstanding options or that may be granted in the future under our equity plans will be eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If any of these additional shares described are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a newly public company, our stock price may be volatile, and securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility of their stock price. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination 25 Table of Contents with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • do not provide stockholders with the ability to cumulate their votes; • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; and • require advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 