Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business A decline in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations or targets and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: •worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of OPEC; •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; •political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; •the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; •the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; •localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; •weather conditions and natural disasters; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations; •speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; •price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than 12-month) contracts at market based prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability and the present value of our reserves. See Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may affect our proved reserves. See also The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves below. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because approximately 67% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2013 were oil and natural gas liquids, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices. The price of oil has been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the daily NYMEX WTI oil spot price ranged from a high of $110.53 per Bbl to a low of $86.68 per Bbl and the NYMEX natural gas Henry Hub spot price ranged from a high of $4.52 per MMBtu to a low of $3.08 per MMBtu. 30 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, we had commodity price derivative agreements on approximately 9,526 Bbls/d and 4,500 Bbls/d of oil hedged with average minimum prices of $89.48/Bbl and $83.33/Bbl in 2014 and 2015, respectively. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves below. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: •shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; •facility or equipment malfunctions; •unexpected operational events; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms; •reductions in oil and natural gas prices; •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, such as permitting delays; •proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; •title problems; and •limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Estimated Proved Reserves under Item 1, Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 (a non-GAAP financial measure) as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. 31 Table of Contents The extent, quality and reliability of these data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise particularly as they relate to new technologies being employed such as the combination of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our impairment charge. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There is a limited amount of production data from horizontal wells completed in the Wattenberg Field. As a result, reserve estimates associated with horizontal wells in this Field are subject to greater uncertainty than estimates associated with reserves attributable to vertical wells in the same Field. Reserve engineers rely in part on the production history of nearby wells in establishing reserve estimates for a particular well or field. Horizontal drilling in the Wattenberg Field is a relatively recent development, whereas vertical drilling has been utilized by producers in this field for over 40 years. As a result, the amount of production data from horizontal wells available to reserve engineers is relatively small. Until a greater number of horizontal wells have been completed in the Wattenberg Field, and a longer production history from these wells has been established, there may be a greater variance in our proved reserves on a year over year basis due to the transition from vertical to horizontal reserves in both the proved developed and proved undeveloped categories. We cannot assure you that any such variance would not be material and any such variance could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the regions where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region in both cases. In certain areas on federal lands, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year. These restrictions limit our ability to operate in those areas and can potentially intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with new SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices (after adjustment for location and quality differentials) for the preceding 12 months, without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; 32 Table of Contents •actual cost of development and production expenditures; •the amount and timing of actual production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If oil and natural gas prices declined by 10% per Bbl and Mcf then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2013 would decrease by approximately 20% or $242.6 million. PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please refer to Estimated Proved Reserves under Item 1, Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for management's discussion of this non-GAAP financial measure. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount available under our revolving credit facility. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. We intend to pursue the further development of our properties in the Wattenberg Field through horizontal drilling. Horizontal drilling operations can be more operationally challenging and costly relative to our historic vertical drilling operations. Our limited operational history with drilling and completing horizontal wells may make us more susceptible to cost overruns and lower results. Horizontal drilling is generally more complex and more expensive on a per well basis than vertical drilling. As a result, there is greater risk associated with a horizontal well drilling program. Risks associated with a horizontal drilling program include, but are not limited to, •landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone; •staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; •running our casing the entire length of the well bore; •being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore; •being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; •preventing downhole communications with other wells; •successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage; and •designing and maintaining efficient forms of artificial lift throughout the life of the well. 33 Table of Contents Any of these risks could materially and adversely impact the success of our horizontal drilling program and thus our cash flows and results of operations. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations, such as horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation, are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas or using technologies that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history, and consequently we are less able to predict future drilling results in these areas. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems, limited takeaway capacity, or natural gas and oil prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments, we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Our ability to produce natural gas and oil economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which we depend to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves or anticipated production volumes. Our exploration and development activities are capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Our cash flows used in investing activities, excluding derivative cash settlements, were $453.9 million and $304.6 million (including $25.8 million and $13.9 million for the acquisition of oil and gas properties and contractual obligations for land acquisitions) related to capital and exploration expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The mid-point of our capital expenditure budget for 2014 is approximately 34 Table of Contents $600 million, with approximately $545 million allocated for operated drilling and completion activities. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A significant improvement in oil and gas prices could result in an increase in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional equity securities, debt securities or the sale of non-strategic assets. The issuance of additional debt or equity may require that a portion of our cash flows provided by operating activities be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, upon the issuance of certain debt securities (other than on a borrowing base redetermination date), our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility would be reduced. Our cash flows provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our proved reserves; •the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; •the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; •the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production; •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; •the ability and willingness of our banks to lend; and •our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. If the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our leases and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. 35 Table of Contents We may experience difficulty in achieving and managing future growth. We have experienced growth in the past primarily through the expansion of our drilling program and acquisitions. Future growth may place strains on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources and cause us to rely more on project partners and independent contractors, possibly negatively affecting our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to grow depends on a number of factors, including: •our ability to obtain leases or options on properties, including those for which we have 3-D seismic data; •our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects; •our ability to develop existing prospects; •our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel; •our ability to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors; •the results of our drilling program; •oil and natural gas prices; and •our access to capital. Our inability to achieve or manage growth may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to pursue our growth strategy may be hindered if we are not able to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees. As a result, we are required to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Concentration of our operations in a few core areas may increase our risk of production loss. Our assets and operations are concentrated in two core areas: the Wattenberg Field in Colorado and the Dorcheat Macedonia Field in southern Arkansas. These core areas currently provide approximately 97% of our current production and the vast majority of our development projects. Beginning in 2012, we initiated a non-core divestiture program to focus our portfolio through the sale of certain non-core assets in California, with one property remaining to be sold as of December 31, 2013. As a result of these portfolio changes, our operations and production are more concentrated. The Wattenberg and Dorcheat Macedonia Fields represent 65% and 32%, respectively, of our 2013 total sales volumes. Disruption of our business in either of these Fields, such as from an accident, natural disaster or other event, would result in a greater impact on our production profile, cash flows and overall business plan than if we operated in a larger number of areas. We do not maintain business interruption (loss of production) insurance for our oil and gas producing properties. Loss of production or limited access to reserves in either of our core operating areas could have a significant negative impact on our cash flows and profitability. 36 Table of Contents We are dependent on third party pipeline, trucking and rail systems to transport our production and, in the Wattenberg Field, gathering and processing systems to prepare our production. These systems have limited capacity and at times have experienced service disruptions. Curtailments, disruptions or lack of availability in these systems interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The marketability of our oil and natural gas and production, particularly from our wells located in the Wattenberg Field, depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing, pipeline, trucking and rail systems. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, excessive pressures, maintenance, weather, field labor issues or disruptions in service. Curtailments and disruptions in these systems may last from a few days to several months. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. These risks are greater for us than for some of our competitors because our operations are focused on areas where there is currently a substantial amount of development activity, which increases the likelihood that there will be periods of time in which there is insufficient midstream capacity to accommodate the resulting increases in production. For example, the gas gathering systems serving the Wattenberg Field recently experienced high line pressures reducing capacity and causing gas production to either be shut in or flared. In addition, we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity, significant delay in the construction of necessary facilities or lack of availability of transport, would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations, and the expected results of our drilling program. Currently, there are no natural gas pipeline systems that service wells in the North Park Basin, which is prospective for the Niobrara formation. In addition, we are not aware of any plans to construct a facility necessary to process natural gas produced from this basin. If neither we nor a third party constructs the required pipeline system and processing facility, we may not be able to fully develop our resources in the North Park Basin. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. Approximately 54% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2013. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our current proved reserves will decline as reserves 37 Table of Contents are produced and, therefore, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. According to estimates included in our December 31, 2013 proved reserve report, if, on January 1, 2014, we had ceased all drilling and development, including recompletions, refracs and workovers, then our proved developed producing reserves base would decline at an annual effective rate of 53% during the first year. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks, including those related to our hydraulic fracturing operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: •environmental hazards, such as spills, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, natural gas, hazardous air pollutants or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; •releases of natural gas and hazardous air pollutants or other substances into the atmosphere (including releases at our gas processing facilities); •hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in natural gas we produce; •abnormally pressured formations resulting in well blowouts, fires or explosions; •mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; •cratering (catastrophic failure); •downhole communication leading to migration of contaminants; •personal injuries and death; and •natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. 38 Table of Contents At two of our Arkansas properties, we produce a small amount of gas from seven operated wells where we have identified the presence of H2S at levels that would be hazardous in the event of an uncontrolled gas release or unprotected exposure. In addition, our operations in Arkansas and Colorado are susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as flooding, wildfires or tornados, which involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. The occurrence of one of these operating hazards may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration and development, or could result in a loss of our properties. As is customary in the gas and oil industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Although we believe the coverage and amounts of insurance that we carry are consistent with industry practice, we do not have insurance protection against all risks that we face, because we choose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the costs of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years, and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If we incur substantial liability, and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Because hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean-up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. We may not have coverage if the operator is unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the "occurrence" to the insurance company within the required time frame. Nor do we have coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events. Under certain circumstances, we have agreed to indemnify third parties against losses resulting from our operations. Pursuant to our surface leases, we typically indemnify the surface owner for clean-up and remediation of the site. As owner and operator of oil and gas wells and associated gathering systems and pipelines, we typically indemnify the drilling contractor for pollution emanating from the well, while the contractor indemnifies us against pollution emanating from its equipment. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. We describe some of our drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location that is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional evaluation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. 39 Table of Contents Our potential drilling location inventories are scheduled to be developed over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2013, a significant portion of our drilling program targets probable and possible reserves with only 305 gross (255 net) of our approximately 1,950 identified potential future gross drilling locations attributed to proved undeveloped reserves. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty in the level of reserves, the availability of capital to us and other participants, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, availability of permits, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. The terms of our oil and gas leases stipulate that the lease will terminate if not held by production, rentals, or operations. As of December 31, 2013, the majority of our acreage in Arkansas was held by unitization, production, or drilling operations and therefore not subject to lease expiration. As of December 31, 2013, 16,057 net acres of our properties in the Rocky Mountain region, specifically 7,062 acres in the Wattenberg Field and 8,995 acres in the North Park Basin, were not held by production. For these properties, if production in paying quantities is not established on units containing these leases during the next year, then 574 net acres will expire in 2014, 2,674 net acres will expire in 2015, and 1,233 net acres will expire in 2016. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. The existence of a title deficiency can diminish the value of an acquired leasehold interest and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leasehold interests is not generally available. In certain situations we may rely upon a land professional's careful examination of public records prior to purchasing or leasing a mineral interest. Once a specific mineral or leasehold interest has been acquired, we typically defer the expense of obtaining further title verification by a practicing title attorney until the drilling block needs approval to drill. We do not always perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title; however, we currently have compliance and control measures to ensure any associated business risk is approved by the appropriate company authority. In cases involving more serious title deficiencies, all or part of a mineral or leasehold interest may be determined to be invalid or unleased, and, as a result, the target area may be deemed to be undrillable until owners can be contacted and curative performed to perfect title. Certain title deficiencies may also result in litigation from time to time. Additional title issues are present in our Southern Arkansas operations. Significant delays in the title examination process are possible due to, among other challenges, the large volume of instruments contained in abstracts, poor indexing at the county clerk and recorder's office, the misfiling of instruments, instruments with missing or inadequate legal descriptions and unclear conveyance terms. 40 Table of Contents We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in the United States. Companies in the oil and gas industry are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. For example, environmental activists continue to advocate for increased regulations or bans on shale drilling in the United States, even in jurisdictions that are among the most stringent in their regulation of the industry. Future activist efforts could result in the following: •delay or denial of drilling permits; •shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; •restrictions on installation or operation of production, gathering or processing facilities; •restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposal of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water; •increased severance and/or other taxes; •cyber-attacks; •legal challenges or lawsuits; •negative publicity about us; •increased costs of doing business; •reduction in demand for our products; and •other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production. We may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives. Complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements that are substantial and not adequately provided for could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may impose on our operations numerous requirements, including the obligation to obtain a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; restrictions on the types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment; limitations or prohibitions of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; specific health and safety criteria to protect workers; and the responsibility for cleaning up any pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; the issuance of injunctions 41 Table of Contents limiting or preventing some or all of our operations; delays in granting permits, or even the cancellation of leases. There is an inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations, some of which may be material, due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, our emissions to air and water, the underground injection or other disposal of our wastes, the use and disposition of hydraulic fracturing fluids, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable regardless of whether we were at fault for the full cost of removing or remediating contamination, even when multiple parties contributed to the release and the contaminants were released in compliance with all applicable laws. In addition, accidental spills or releases on our properties may expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Aside from government agencies, the owners of properties where our wells are located, the operators of facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal and other private parties may be able to sue us to enforce compliance with environmental laws and regulations, collect penalties for violations or obtain damages for any related personal injury or property damage. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that historic contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly material handling, emission, waste management or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. New environmental legislation or regulatory initiatives, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning health, safety, and environmental protection. Government authorities frequently add to those requirements, and both oil and gas development generally and hydraulic fracturing specifically are receiving increasing regulatory attention. Our operations utilize hydraulic fracturing, an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, proppant, and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Recently, the EPA issued final rules that establish new air emission controls for natural gas processing operations, as well as for oil and natural gas production. Among other things, the latter rules cover the completion and operation of hydraulically fractured gas wells and associated equipment. After several parties challenged the new air regulations in court, the EPA reconsidered certain requirements and is evaluating whether reconsideration of other issues is warranted. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or the cost to comply with such air regulatory requirements. Some activists have attempted to link hydraulic fracturing to various environmental problems, including potential adverse effects to drinking water supplies as well as migration of methane and other hydrocarbons. As a result, the federal government is studying the environmental risks associated with hydraulic fracturing and evaluating whether to adopt additional regulatory requirements. For example, the EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, and the draft results are expected to be released for public and peer review in 2014 . In addition, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. The EPA also has prepared draft guidance for issuing underground injection permits that would regulate hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuel, where EPA has permitting 42 Table of Contents authority under the Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA"); this guidance eventually could encourage other regulatory authorities to adopt to permitting and other restrictions on the use of hydraulic fracturing. The U.S. Department of Interior, moreover, has proposed new rules for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands that, in general, would cover disclosure of fracturing fluid components, well bore integrity, and handling of flowback water. And the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has proposed stricter standards for worker exposure to silica, which would apply to use of sand as a proppant for hydraulic fracturing. In the United States Congress, bills have been introduced that would amend the SDWA to eliminate an existing exemption for certain hydraulic fracturing activities from the definition of "underground injection," thereby requiring the oil and natural gas industry to obtain SDWA permits for fracturing not involving diesel fuels, and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the process. If adopted, such legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level, but some form of chemical disclosure is already required by most oil and gas producing states. At this time, it is not clear what action, if any, the United States Congress will take on hydraulic fracturing. Apart from these ongoing federal initiatives, state governments where we operate have moved to impose stricter requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other aspects of oil and gas production. Colorado, for example, comprehensively updated its oil and gas regulations in 2008 and adopted significant additional amendments in 2011 and 2013. Among other things, the updated and amended regulations require operators to reduce methane emissions associated with hydraulic fracturing, compile and report additional information regarding well bore integrity, publicly disclose the chemical ingredients used in hydraulic fracturing, increase the minimum distance between occupied structures and oil and gas wells, undertake additional mitigation for nearby residents, and implement additional groundwater testing. The State is also considering new regulations for air emissions from oil and gas operations as well as potential legislation increasing the monetary penalties for regulatory violations. Even local governments are adopting new requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas operations. Some counties in Colorado, for instance, have amended their land use regulations to impose new requirements on oil and gas development, while other local governments have entered memoranda of agreement with oil and gas producers to accomplish the same objective. Beyond that, in 2012, Longmont, Colorado prohibited the use of hydraulic fracturing. The oil and gas industry and the State are challenging that ban—and the authority of local jurisdictions to regulate oil and gas development—in court. In November 2013, four other Colorado cities and counties passed voter initiatives either placing a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing or banning new oil and gas development. These initiatives too are the subject of pending legal challenge. While these initiatives cover areas with little recent or ongoing oil and gas development, they could lead opponents of hydraulic fracturing to push for statewide referendums, especially in Colorado. The adoption of future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations imposing new environmental obligations on, or otherwise limiting, our operations could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete oil and natural gas wells, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, delay or prevent the development of certain resources (including especially shale formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing), or alter the demand for and consumption of our products and services. We cannot assure you that any such outcome would not be material, and any such outcome could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. There is a growing belief that human-caused (anthropogenic) emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHG") may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHG have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services and the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to potential changes in both costs and weather patterns). In December 2009, the EPA determined that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other GHG present an endangerment to public health and welfare, because such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Consistent with its findings, the EPA has proposed or adopted various regulations under the Clean Air Act to address GHG. Among other things, the EPA began limiting emissions of GHG from new cars and light duty trucks beginning with the 2012 model year. In addition, the EPA has published a final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or "PSD," and Title V permitting programs, pursuant to which these permitting requirements have been "tailored" to apply to certain "major" stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest major sources first subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions will be required to meet emissions limits that are based on the "best available control technology," which will be established by the permitting agencies on a case-by-case basis. The EPA also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specific categories of higher GHG emitting sources in the United States, including certain oil and natural gas production facilities, which include certain of our operations, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Information in such report may form the basis for further GHG regulation. Further, the EPA is evaluating strategies for reducing air emissions of methane from oil and gas operations. The EPA's GHG rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Moreover, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHG or promote the use of renewable fuels. As an alternative, some proponents of GHG controls have advocated mandating a national "clean energy" standard. In 2011, for example, President Obama encouraged Congress to adopt a goal of generating 80% of U.S. electricity from "clean energy" by 2035 with credit for renewable and nuclear power and partial credit for clean coal and "efficient natural gas." Because of the lack of any comprehensive federal legislative program expressly addressing GHG, there currently is a great deal of uncertainty as to how and when additional federal regulation of GHG might take place and as to whether the EPA should continue with its existing regulations in the absence of more specific Congressional direction. In the meantime, many states already have taken such measures, which have included renewable energy standards, development of GHG emission inventories or cap and trade programs. Cap and trade programs typically work by requiring major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of available allowances reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHG could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate 44 Table of Contents change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHG could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms and floods. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. Our insurance may not cover some or any of the damages, losses, or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory drilling locations or to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drilling attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to retain our existing senior management or technical personnel or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could adversely affect our operations. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management, technical personnel, or any of the vice presidents of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Effective January 31, 2014, Michael R. Starzer, retired from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer and Marvin M. Chronister, a current Board member, is serving as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer until a permanent replacement is identified. We are in the process of completing a comprehensive search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer, however there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and hire a qualified candidate in a timely manner. Our ability to attract, select and hire a permanent Chief Executive Officer candidate may prove difficult, take more time than anticipated, and be costly. This may require other senior management to divert part of their attention from their primary duties, which could have an adverse effect on our business or operations. 45 Table of Contents Similarly, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified senior management, including a permanent Chief Executive Officer. We recorded substantial stock-based compensation expense in 2013, and we are likely to incur additional stock-based compensation expense related to our future grants of stock, which may impact our operating results for the foreseeable future. We incurred stock-based compensation expense in 2013 in the amount of $12.6 million compared to $4.5 million in 2012. Our compensation expenses are likely to increase in the future as compared to our historical expenses because of the costs associated with our stock-based incentive plans. These additional expenses will adversely affect our net income. We cannot determine the actual amount of these new stock-related compensation and benefit expenses at this time, because applicable accounting practices generally require that they be based on the fair market value of the options or shares of common stock at the date of the grant; however, we expect them to be significant. We will recognize expenses for restricted stock and stock option awards we grant generally over the vesting period of such awards. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars and fixed-price swaps. We have not designated any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; •the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or •there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements. Current or proposed financial legislation and rulemaking could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, establishes, among other provisions, federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes margin requirements and certain transaction clearing and trade execution requirements. On October 18, 2011, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") approved regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, which were successfully challenged in federal district court by the Securities Industry Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and largely vacated by the court. The CFTC has filed a notice of appeal with respect to this ruling. Under CFTC final rules promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, we believe our derivatives activity will qualify for the non-financial, commercial end-user exception, which exempts derivatives intended to hedge or mitigate commercial risk from the mandatory swap clearing 46 Table of Contents requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require us to comply with margin requirements in our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivative as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may be more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business prospects and our ability to make payment on our Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2013, we had $500 million of outstanding 6.75% Senior Notes ("Senior Notes"), no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility and $181 million of cash and cash equivalents. We intend to fund our capital expenditures through our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, but may seek additional debt financing. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities; •limit management's discretion in operating our business and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •increase our vulnerability to downturns and adverse developments in our business and the economy generally; •limit our ability to access capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness; •place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sells assets and engage in business combinations; •make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; •make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates as our indebtedness under any revolving credit facility may vary with prevailing interest rates; •place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes or other debt and increase the risks that we may default on our debt obligations. 47 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes have restrictive covenants that could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, including a minimum current ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. In addition, our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •issue preferred stock; •sell or transfer assets; •pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; •repurchase or redeem our subordinated debt; •make certain acquisitions and investments; •create or incur liens; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; •enter into sale-leaseback transactions; •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and •engage in certain business activities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. We would not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. Our ability to comply with the financial ratios and financial condition tests under our revolving credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Borrowings under our credit facility are limited by our borrowing base, which is subject to periodic redetermination. The borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined at least semi-annually, and the lenders holding 662/3% of the aggregate commitments or we may request one additional 48 Table of Contents redetermination in each six-month period. Redeterminations are based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition, our lenders have substantial flexibility to reduce our borrowing base due to subjective factors. Upon a redetermination, we could be required to repay a portion of our bank debt to the extent our outstanding borrowings at such time exceed the redetermined borrowing base. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments, which could result in a default under the terms of the facility and an acceleration of the loans thereunder requiring us to negotiate renewals, arrange new financing or sell significant assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil and natural gas production, which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. We had approximately $57.5 million in receivables from oil and gas sales at December 31, 2013. We are subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. This concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk since these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to Lion Oil Trading & Transport, Inc., Plains Marketing LP, and High Sierra Crude Oil & Marketing accounted for approximately 23%, 37%, and 15%, respectively, of our total sales. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our management does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the Company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed or investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Compliance with the reporting and disclosure requirements of a public company under the Exchange Act, the NYSE rules and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act requires a substantial amount of management's time and will continue to increase our costs. As a public company with listed securities, we must comply with laws, rules, regulations and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), among other laws, rules, regulations and requirements. Complying with these laws, rules, regulations and requirements occupies 49 Table of Contents a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will continue to significantly increase our costs and expenses. We may be involved in legal proceedings that may result in substantial liabilities. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. There have been proposals for legislative changes that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. Any such changes in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions within the industry that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, processing and distribution activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and transportation systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation and process and record financial and operating data. Pipelines, refineries, power stations and distribution points for both fuels and electricity are becoming more interconnected by computer systems. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. Our technologies, systems, networks and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, we may suffer such losses in the future. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. 50 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock We do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our stock appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently prohibited from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our revolving credit facility and our Senior Notes. Consequently, our stockholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates, which may not occur, and the stockholder sells their shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that the stockholder paid. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and our stock price could decline. The trading price of shares of our common stock has from time to time fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including our operating results, financial condition, drilling activities, general conditions in the oil and natural gas exploration and development industry, general economic conditions, the securities markets and the risk factors set forth in this annual report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our current stockholders' ownership in us. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock, regardless of the actual plans of our existing stockholders. Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Alberta, in her own capacity and as trustee/nominee for certain Alberta pension clients ("HMQ"), owns 7,587,859 shares, or approximately 18.83% of our total outstanding shares. HMQ is party to a registration rights agreement with us. Pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed to effect the registration of shares held by HMQ if itso requests or if we conduct other offerings of our common stock. In addition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock or substantially similar securities, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, our stockholders may be further diluted by future issuances under our equity incentive plans. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, even if such acquisition or merger may be in our stockholders' best interests. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including: •a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; •advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and 51 Table of Contents •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings or act by written consent. Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Alberta Investment Management Corporation may be deemed to beneficially own or control a significant portion of our common stock, giving them a substantial influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Their interests and the interests of the parties on whose behalf they invest may conflict with our other stockholders, and the concentration of ownership of our common stock by such stockholders will limit the influence of public stockholders. AIMCo, a Canadian corporation and investment manager to HMQ and certain Alberta pension funds, may be deemed to beneficially own, control or have substantial influence over approximately 18.83% of our outstanding common stock. West Face Capital and AIMCo, on behalf of HMQ and certain Alberta pension funds, have entered into an investment management agreement pursuant to which West Face Capital has the right to vote the shares of our common stock held by HMQ. Accordingly, West Face may exert significant influence over our board of directors and substantially influence the outcome of stockholder votes. Even if the investment management agreement between West Face Capital and AIMCo were to be terminated, AIMCo, on behalf of HMQ, would have the ability to exert significant influence over the Company. A concentration of ownership in AIMCo's clients would allow such stockholders to influence, directly or indirectly and subject to applicable law, significant matters affecting us, including the following: •establishment of business strategy and policies; •amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; •nomination and election of directors; •appointment and removal of officers; •our capital structure; and •compensation of directors, officers and employees and other employee-related matters. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, and could discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The significant ownership interest of HMQ could also adversely affect investors' perceptions of our corporate governance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 