ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our Class A common stock involves significant risks. You should consider carefully all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks and uncertainties described below and the financial statements and related notes included in this report, before making an investment in our Class A common stock. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or liquidity. In any such case, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. References to sections which provide additional information not contained herein, usually noted by the word “See” followed by a heading or paragraph reference, refer to sections of this report. Risks Related to Our Business We will need substantial additional funding to accomplish our business strategy and may be unable to raise capital on terms favorable to us or at all, which could increase our financing costs, dilute your ownership interests, affect our business operations or force us to delay, reduce or abandon our business strategy. Our business strategy is to create an all-digital national footprint by selectively pursuing multi-screen theatre acquisition opportunities that meet our strategic and financial criteria, with upgrades to digital platforms as necessary. To successfully implement this strategy, we will need to raise substantial additional funds. Our ability to fund potential theatre acquisitions, including the potential acquisition of Lisbon Cinema, and capital expenditures for theatre digitalization, expansion or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, the availability of which depends on many factors beyond our control, including: ● general economic and capital market conditions; ● the availability of credit from banks or other lenders; ● investor confidence in us; and ● the continued performance of our theatres. 24 Table of Contents We cannot predict when, if ever, our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to fund our capital investment requirements. Until they do, we will be required to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, bank loans or other debt financing, or otherwise. There can be no assurance that financing for future theatre acquisitions and capital expenditures for theatre digitalization, expansion or renovation will be available on terms favorable to us or at all, which could force us to delay, reduce or abandon our growth strategy, increase our financing costs, or both. We may incur debt, if such financing is available to us, in order to expand our business. Additional funding from debt financings may make it more difficult for us to operate our business because we would need to make principal and interest payments on the indebtedness and may be obligated to abide by restrictive covenants contained in the debt financing agreements, which may, among other things, limit our ability to make business and operational decisions and pay dividends. Furthermore, raising capital through public or private sales of equity to finance acquisitions or expansion could cause earnings or ownership dilution to your shareholding interests in our company. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth will be realized or that future capital will be available for us to fund our capital expenditure needs. We may not benefit from our business strategy of acquiring and operating multi-screen theatres. Our business strategy is to acquire and operate multi-screen theatres. In any acquisition, we expect to benefit from cost savings through, for example, the reduction of overhead and theatre level costs, and from revenue enhancements resulting from the acquisition. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to realize any anticipated benefits or that our profitability will be improved by any one or more acquisitions. Any acquisition may involve operating risks, such as: ● the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel and integrating them into our current business; ● the potential disruption of our ongoing business; ● the diversion of management’s attention and other resources; ● the possible inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; ● the risks of entering markets in which we have little or no experience; ● the potential impairment of relationships with employees; ● the possibility that any liabilities we may incur or assume may prove to be more burdensome than anticipated; and ● the possibility that any acquired theatres or theatre circuit operators do not perform as expected. 25 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses since inception, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. We incurred a net loss of $0.8 million from the inception date (July 29, 2010) to June 30, 2011. We incurred a net loss of $ 2.0 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and had an accumulated deficit of $2.8 million as of June 30, 2012. We cannot assure you that we will become profitable for fiscal year ending June 30, 2013 or in any other future period. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to execute our business strategy of acquiring and operating multi-screen theatres on a profitable basis. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to effectively acquire theatres and manage the risks and difficulties facing our business as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have a limited operating history which provides limited reference for you to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. Since we have a limited operating history, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with early stage companies and have historically operated at a loss. Accordingly, you will have a limited basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We were formed in July 2010 without any operating business. As of the date hereof, we have acquired a total of eight theatres and have entered into an acquisition agreement to acquire one more. We plan to continue carrying out our acquisition strategy of acquiring theatres. Our financial condition, results of operations and our future success will, to a significant extent, depend on our ability to continue to acquire theatres throughout the United States and to achieve economies of scale. We cannot assure you that more acquisitions can be consummated on terms favorable to us or at all, or that if we achieve those acquisitions we will be able to operate our expanded business profitably. If we fail to achieve our business objectives, then we may not be able to realize our expected revenue growth, maintain our existing revenue levels or operate at a profit. Even if we do realize our business objectives, our business may not be profitable in the future. We expect to incur long-term lease and debt obligations, which may restrict our ability to fund current and future operations and that may restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. In order to effect our business plan, we expect to incur long-term debt service obligations and long-term lease obligations, which may potentially may occur in the near term or long term. We expect to assume outstanding or execute new operating leases for theatres in connection with any acquisition that we may consummate. In addition, we may finance future theatre acquisitions through debt financing, provided that such financing is available to us on acceptable terms. Specifically, the Company has in the past and continues to engage in discussion regarding such potential debt financing. Any lease or debt obligations we incur will pose risk to you by: ● making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; ● requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements and to pay dividends; ● impeding our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; ● subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on any variable rate debt we incur; and ● making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and competitive pressures and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry or the economy. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to any indebtedness we incur will depend on our ability to generate positive cash flows and on our future financial results. Our ability to generate positive cash flows is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate cash flows at levels sufficient to enable us to pay any indebtedness we incur. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund future lease and debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet any scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may be restricted under the terms of any future debt agreements. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our leases and indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default, and as a result, our debt holders would likely have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness and the lenders under any secured credit facility that we execute could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings. We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in the loss of your investment. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay any future indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt holders require immediate payment, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. We may face intense competition in our business strategy of acquiring theatres. We may have difficulty identifying suitable acquisition candidates. Even if we do identify appropriate candidates, we anticipate significant competition from other motion picture exhibitors and other buyers when trying to acquire these candidates, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire identified candidates at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. Many of our competitors are well established and have significant experience in identifying and effecting acquisitions. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target theatres. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for attractive theatre acquisitions. In addition, while we believe that there are numerous potential target theatres that we can acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target theatres will be limited by our available financial resources. As a result of competition, we may not succeed in acquiring suitable candidates or may have to pay more than we would prefer to make an acquisition. If we cannot identify or successfully acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may not be able to successfully expand our operations and the market price of our securities could be adversely affected particularly since acquisitions are an important part of our strategy. 27 Table of Contents Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target theatre and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating an acquisition. If a decision is made not to complete a specific acquisition, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire other theatres. We are subject to uncertainties related to digital cinema, including insufficient financing to obtain digital projectors and insufficient supply of digital projectors. Some of our competitors began a roll-out of digital projection equipment for exhibiting feature films during 2006 and most exhibitors plan to continue domestic roll-out of digital cinema until it is completed. However, significant obstacles may exist that impact such a roll-out plan and our ability to convert the theatres we acquire to digital projection platforms including the availability of financing, the cost of digital projectors and the supply of projectors by manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient additional financing to be able to purchase and/or lease the number of digital projectors we will require or that the manufacturers will be able to supply the volume of projectors needed for the worldwide roll-out that is now ongoing in our industry. As a result, our ability to deploy digital equipment in the theatres we acquire could be delayed. Accordingly, the availability of financing, the cost of digital projection systems and manufacturer limitations may delay our deployment of digital platforms. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain sufficient or compelling alternative content. Our ability to present alternative content depends on the availability, diversity and appeal of alternative content and customer taste. This varies from geographic region to region. Poor performance of, or any disruption in the production or supply of alternative content could hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, the type of alternative content offered to us may not be accepted by the demographic base of movie-goers in our theatres. The “virtual print fee” program is expected to expire on December 31, 2012, after which we will no longer be able to use such fees to finance our purchases of digital projection equipment. With respect to any future acquisitions that we may consummate, we expect to finance our purchases of digital projection equipment through capital lease financing or secured loans provided by banks or vendors. We expect to repay our obligations under these financing arrangements using “virtual print fees” that we recover from motion picture distributors, and we may also secure such financing arrangements with the virtual print fees. Virtual print fees are provided to motion picture exhibitors from movie distributors, to encourage and assist exhibitors in the conversion to digital projection platforms, by effectively lowering the film rent expense that exhibitors pay to the movie distributors. The virtual print fee program provides that all distributors pay virtual print fees on a quarterly basis to motion picture exhibitors based on films scheduled by the exhibitors on approved digital projection platforms until the earlier of ten years from date the digital systems in a particular theatre are installed or the date the exhibitor has recovered its out-of-pockets costs, including any financing charges, for the digital conversion. The virtual print fee program is expected to expire for new installations of digital projection systems made after December 31, 2012. We will continue receiving virtual print fees for approved digital projection systems installed prior to December 31, 2012. Following expiration of the virtual print fee program, we will need to finance installations of digital projection platforms from other sources. The pending expiration of the virtual print fee program may provide theatre owners who are otherwise inclined to sell their theatres an incentive to sell their theatres at a higher price. We may seek to reduce our proposed purchase price or offer a lower purchase price with respect to any theatre that we seek to acquire which has not been previously converted to a digital projection system prior to the discontinuance of the virtual print fee program. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to secure the financing that we may require or that we will be able to obtain the proposed purchase price reductions. 29 Table of Contents Disruption of our relationships with various vendors could substantially harm our business. We rely on our relationships with several vendors in the operations of our business. These relationships include: ● the film department of Clearview, which handles our negotiations with film distributors; ● Cinedigm, from which we license the Exhibit Management System (“EMS”) back office management system and which, through a subsidiary, acts as our agent to collect “virtual print fees” from motion picture distributors (for a discussion of “virtual print fees,” see “Business-Digital Cinema Implementation”); ● NCM provides us with in-theatre advertising and alternative context; ● Barco, which provides us with digital equipment; ● Continental Concession, which provides us with most of our concessions; and ● RealD™, which provides us with our 3D cinema systems. Although our senior management has long-standing relationships with each of these vendors, we could experience deterioration or loss of any of our vendor relationships, which would significantly disrupt our operations until an alternative source is secured. Deterioration in our relationships with any of the major film distributors could adversely affect our access to commercially successful films and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business depends to a significant degree on maintaining good relationships with the major film distributors that license films to our theatres. Clearview’s film department handles negotiations with motion picture distributors on our behalf. Deterioration in our relationships with any of the major film distributors could adversely affect our access to commercially successful films and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since the distribution of motion pictures is in large part regulated by federal and state antitrust laws and has been the subject of numerous antitrust cases, we cannot ensure a supply of motion pictures by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. Rather, we must compete for licenses on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis and are required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre individually. We rely on software we license from Cinedigm to operate our accounting systems and a failure of this system could harm our business. We depend on Cinedigm’s EMS back office management software system to operate the accounting functions of our business. A substantial system failure could temporarily restrict and limit our internal accounting functions. In addition, we rely on EMS to track theatre invoices and to generate operating reports to analyze film performance and theatre profitability. The EMS system is also an intricate part of our financial reporting process and provides us with information that, together with our other financial software program, allows us to prepare our periodic financial reports. Disruption in, changes to, or a system failure of the EMS system could result in the loss of important data, and increase our expenses. 30 Table of Contents We rely on “point-of-sale” software that we license from RTS to operate our back office management systems and a failure of this system could harm our business. We depend on RTS’s point-of-sale software to operate our point-of-sale transactions including issuing tickets to patrons at our theatres and selling concessions. A substantial system failure could restrict and limit our ability to issue tickets timely to our patrons, sell concessions and could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our patrons to visit other theatres. In addition, we rely on RTS to transmit data to our EMS software to coordinate payroll, track theatre invoices, generate operating reports to analyze film performance and theatre profitability, and generate information to quickly detect theft. Disruption in, changes to, or a system failure of the RTS system could result in the loss of important data, and increase our expenses. We depend on our senior management. Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, including A. Dale Mayo, our chairman and chief executive officer, Jeff Butkovsky, our chief technology officer, and Brian D. Pflug, our chief financial officer. In particular, we rely on the relationships in the motion picture exhibition industry that Mr. Mayo has fostered in his 24 year career in the industry. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our senior management if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any member of senior management could adversely affect our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy. Compensation may be paid to our senior management regardless of our profitability which may affect our operating results. We have entered into employment agreements with each member of our senior management team. Mr. Mayo, our chairman and chief executive officer, is entitled to periodic salary increases as well as bonuses based on our consolidated gross revenues and regardless of whether we operate at a profit or loss. Each of our other executive officers is entitled to bonuses, as determined by our board of directors. Increases in compensation paid to our senior management will increase our expenses, affect our results of operations and may make it more difficult for us to achieve profitable operations. If we do not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, we could be subject to litigation. Movie theatres must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”) and analogous state and local laws. Compliance with the ADA requires among other things that public facilities “reasonably accommodate” individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations made to “commercial facilities” conform to accessibility guidelines unless “structurally impracticable” for new construction or technically infeasible for alterations. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Industry We depend on motion picture production and performance. As a motion picture exhibitor, our ability to operate successfully depends upon the availability, diversity and appeal of motion pictures, our ability to license motion pictures and the performance of such motion pictures in our theatres. We license first-run motion pictures, the success of which has increasingly depended on the marketing efforts of the major motion picture studios. Poor performance of, or any disruption in the production of these motion pictures (including by reason of a strike or lack of adequate financing), or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the major motion picture studios, could hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, a change in the type and breadth of movies offered by motion picture studios may not be accepted by the demographic base of moviegoers. The motion picture exhibition industry has experienced a declining trend in attendance during recent years. The U.S. motion picture exhibition industry has been subject to periodic short-term increases and decreases in attendance and, box office revenues. In recent years, the U.S. motion exhibition industry has experienced a declining trend in attendance, and according to boxoffice.com, attendance during 2011 was 1.28 billion. According to the MPAA, attendance during 2010 was 1.34 billion. For additional information regarding attendance levels and industry trends, see “Business — Industry Overview and Trends”. We expect the cyclical nature of the U.S. motion picture exhibition industry to continue for the foreseeable future, and if the declining trend in attendance continues, our results of operations could be adversely affected. To offset any decrease in attendance, we plan to offer products unique to the motion picture exhibition industry, such as 3D films and specially selected alternative content. We cannot assure you, however, that our offering of such content will offset any decrease in attendance that the industry may experience. Our business is subject to significant competitive pressures. We face varying degrees of competition from other motion picture exhibitors with respect to licensing films and attracting patrons. In those areas where real estate is readily available, there are few barriers preventing competing companies from opening theatres near one of our existing or future theatres. Many of our competitors have substantially more resources than we do and may therefore have a competitive advantage over us. An increase in the use of alternative film delivery methods, which may be enhanced if traditional release windows are shortened, may drive down movie theatre attendance and reduce ticket prices. We compete with other movie delivery vehicles, including cable television, downloads and streaming video via the Internet, in-home video and DVD, satellite and pay-per-view services. When motion picture distributors license their products to the domestic exhibition industry, they refrain from licensing their motion pictures to these other delivery vehicles during the theatrical release window. The theatrical release window has shortened over the last decade. In addition, proposals have been made from time to time, particularly in the last several years, which would further shorten the window substantially and allow for premium video on demand and other alternatives that would be available during theatrical releases. These initiatives have not been instituted due, in part, to the adverse reaction of motion picture exhibitors. We cannot assure you that these initiatives will not be instituted in the future. We believe that a material contraction of the current theatrical release window could significantly dilute the consumer appeal of in-theatre motion picture offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Our revenues vary significantly depending upon the timing of the motion picture releases by distributors. Our business is seasonal, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues generated during the summer months and year-end holiday season. While motion picture distributors have begun to release major motion pictures more evenly throughout the year, the most marketable motion pictures are usually released during the summer months and the year-end holiday season, and we expect to generate more revenue and cash flows during those periods than in other periods during the year. As a result, the timing of motion picture releases affects our results of operations, which may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. If we do not adequately manage our theatre costs of operations, it could significantly affect our cash flow and potential for future growth. Due to the dependency on the success of films released from one period to the next, results of operations for one period may not be indicative of the results for the following period or the same period in the following year. There can be no assurance of a supply of motion pictures. The distribution of motion pictures is in large part regulated by federal and state antitrust laws and has been the subject of numerous antitrust cases. Consent decrees resulting from those cases effectively require major motion picture distributors to offer and license films to motion picture exhibitors, including us, on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis. Consequently, we cannot assure ourselves of a supply of motion pictures by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors, but must compete for our licenses on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock We cannot assure our stockholders that our stock price will not decline or not be subject to significant volatility. A public market for our Class A common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market was initiated on the consummation of our initial public offering. However, an active public market for our Class A common stock may not develop or be sustained over time. The market price of our Class A common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. The price of our stock may change in response to variations in our operating results and also may change in response to other factors, including factors specific to companies in our industry many of which are beyond our control. Our shares may be less liquid than the shares of other newly public companies and there may be imbalances between supply and demand for our shares. As a result, our share price may experience significant volatility and may not necessarily reflect the value of our expected performance. In particular, we cannot assure our stockholders that they will be able to resell their shares of our Class A common stock at or above their purchase price. 33 Table of Contents The interests of Mr. Mayo, our controlling stockholder, may conflict with the interests of our stockholders, and the concentration of voting power with Mr. Mayo will limit our other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders, while our Class B common stock has ten votes per share. Mr. Mayo owns all of our outstanding Class B common stock. As a result, as of September 21, 2012, Mr. Mayo controlled approximately 66.6% of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock with voting rights. Mr. Mayo will have significant influence for the foreseeable future over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on our common stock. Mr. Mayo will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control, and could take other actions that might be desirable to him but not to other stockholders. Because of this dual class structure, Mr. Mayo will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (other than changes to our authorized capital stock) even if he owns less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. This concentrated control will limit our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. Our certificate of incorporation provides that on transfer for any reason, the Class B common stock will automatically convert to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Our stockholders do not have the same protections generally available to stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies because we are currently a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As of September 21, 2012, Mr. Mayo controlled approximately 66.6 % of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock with voting rights. Because of Mr. Mayo’s ownership interest and control of our voting power, we are considered a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As a controlled company, within the meaning of NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, we are not subject to the corporate governance requirements of the Rule 5600 series of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules (other than the audit committee requirements) that would otherwise require us to have: ● a majority of independent directors on our board of directors; ● compensation of our executive officers determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; or ● director nominees selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors. 34 Table of Contents Accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies for so long as Mr. Mayo controls more than 50% of our voting power and we rely upon such exemptions. The interests of Mr. Mayo, our controlling stockholder, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders, and the concentration of voting power with Mr. Mayo will limit our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters,” for more information on the risks we face in connection with Mr. Mayo’s ownership interest and control of our voting power. Potential future sales of our Class A common stock could cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our Class A common stock or the availability of shares of our Class A common stock for sale will have on the market price of our Class A common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. As of September 21, 2012 we have 4,519,452 shares of Class A common stock, 900,000 shares of Class B common stock and six shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding. All of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock are held by Mr. Mayo, who may convert his shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Our Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 60,000 shares of our Class A common stock. All of the 2,523,900 shares of our Class A common stock sold in our initial public offering and overallotment exercise are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Substantially all of the remaining 1,995,552 shares of Class A common stock and 900,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding, based on shares outstanding as of September 21, 2012, are restricted as a result of securities laws, lock-up agreements or other contractual restrictions that restrict transfers for at least 180 days from April 16, 2012 (or such earlier date or dates as agreed between us and Maxim Group LLC), subject to certain extensions. Maxim Group LLC may, in its sole discretion, release all or some portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements prior to expiration of the lock-up period. 35 Table of Contents Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the market value of our common stock, dilute the voting power of common stockholders and delay or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 8,027,494 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in our common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. Further, the issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance our operations and acquisitions of theatres and digital upgrades associated with any acquisitions. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, and consequently, holders of our Class A common stock can expect to receive a return on their investment in our Class A common stock only if the market price of the stock increases. 36 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: ● Our certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class common stock structure. As a result of this structure, Mr. Mayo will have the ability to control all matters requiring stockholder approval (other than changes to our authorized capital stock), including the election of directors, amendments to our charter documents and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. We have amended our certificate of incorporation to provide that on transfer for any reason, the Class B common stock will automatically convert to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. ● Our board of directors has the right to determine the authorized number of directors and to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to control the size of or fill vacancies on our board of directors. ● Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder becomes an “interested” stockholder. 