ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Future changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations. Net income is the amount by which net interest income and non-interest income exceeds non-interest expense and the provision for loan losses. Net interest income makes up a majority of our income and is based on the difference between: • interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We are vulnerable to changes in interest rates including the shape of the yield curve because of a mismatch between the terms to repricing of our assets and liabilities. Historically, our liabilities repriced more quickly than our assets, which made us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. For the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, our net interest margin was 3.22% and 3.08%, respectively. Our Asset/Liability Management Committee utilizes a computer simulation model to provide an analysis of estimated changes in net interest income in various interest rate scenarios. At September 30, 2012, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, our model projects an increase in our net portfolio value of $2,043 million, or 4.1%. In the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, our model projects a decrease in our net portfolio value of $7,919 million, or 15.8%. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. We Have Increased and Plan to Continue to Increase Our Levels of Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family, Commercial Business and Construction and Land Loans, Which in Turn Increases Our Exposure to Credit Risks. At September 30, 2012, our portfolio of commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction and land loans totaled $25.3 million, or 13.8% of our total loans, compared to $20.7 million, or 11.2% of our total loans at September 30, 2011. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans consistent with safety and soundness. These loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans. Repayment of such loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business to cover operating expenses and debt service. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender could affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or business, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. As we increase our portfolio of these loans, we may experience higher levels of non-performing assets and/or loan losses. Finally, a significant portion of our commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction and land loan portfolio is unseasoned, meaning that such loans have been originated recently. It is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio, and these loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience. 34 Table of Contents We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, we expect to continue to incur additional personnel expenses as a result of our expansion of this type of lending, as we have recently hired a Chief Credit Officer and a Retail Lending Manager, and expect to hire additional personnel to support our commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction and land lending operations. We may not be successful in executing our plan to increase significantly the percentage of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans with adjustable-rate mortgages, which could increase our exposure to interest rate risk. In order to reduce our vulnerability to changes in interest rates, in 2009, we changed our business strategy to increase our focus on adjustable-rate mortgage loans. In addition, in fiscal year 2010, we began selling substantially all of our originated fixed-rate one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Historically, it has often been difficult for thrift institutions to originate adjustable-rate mortgage loans with a spread that compares favorably with the cost of funds. In addition, borrower demand for adjustable-rate mortgage loans decreases significantly during periods of low interest rates, including the current low interest rate environment. During the year ended September 30, 2012, we were able to originate $22.1 million of adjustable-rate mortgage loans, most of which carried rates that adjust annually at a spread of 3.55% over the applicable index (the weekly average yield on United States Treasury securities). At September 30, 2012, $69.6 million, or 21.9% of our assets consisted of adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Although adjustable-rate mortgage loans may reduce to an extent our vulnerability to changes in market interest rates because they periodically reprice, as interest rates increase the required payments due from the borrower also increase (subject to rate caps), increasing the potential for default by the borrower. At the same time, the ability of the borrower to repay the loan and the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. Upward adjustments of the contractual interest rate are also limited by the maximum periodic and lifetime rate adjustments permitted by our loan documents. Moreover, the interest rates on most of our adjustable-rate loans do not adjust for up to five years after origination. As a result, the effectiveness of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in compensating for changes in general interest rates may be limited during periods of rapidly rising interest rates. Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings institutions due to the substantial number of automobile loans in our portfolio. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of motor vehicle loans, as well as other consumer loans. At September 30, 2012, our consumer loans totaled $15.5 million, or 8.5% of our total loan portfolio, of which motor vehicle loans totaled $7.0 million, or 3.8% of total loans. Automobile loans decreased by $0.3 million from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2012, and represented a small portion of the overall decrease in our loan portfolio. As of September 30, 2012, we had $28,000 of motor vehicle loans delinquent 60 days or more, which was 1.9% of total delinquent loans 60 days or more past due. For the year ended September 30, 2012, we had charge-offs of motor vehicle loans totaling $28,000, representing 4.4% of total charge-offs for the period. As we maintain or increase our automobile loan portfolio, we may experience increased delinquencies and charge-offs in future periods. Consumer loans generally have a greater risk of loss or default than one- to four-family residential real estate loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. We face the risk that any collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Thus, the recovery and sale of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the principal outstanding on these loans. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. As a result of our relatively large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses in the event our losses on these loans increase, which would reduce our profits. 35 Table of Contents If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Will Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 1.1% of total loans at September 30, 2012, future additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The United States Economy Remains Weak and Unemployment Levels Are High. Continued Adverse Economic Conditions, Especially Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, the effects of which have continued. Recent growth has been slow and unemployment remains at high levels; as a result, economic recovery is expected to be slow. Loan portfolio quality has remained poor at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy and high unemployment rates. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages throughout the United States has declined. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans in many markets across the United States. Our lending market area consists of Greenup, Lawrence and Boyd Counties in Kentucky, and Lawrence and Scioto Counties in Ohio. These five counties have experienced minimal changes in population and households from 2000 to 2010, including population growth or shrinkage of 1.9%, 5.2%, -1.9%, 0.1% and -3.1%, respectively. In addition, the five counties have recorded only modest changes in the number of households from 2000 to 2010, consisting of household growth or shrinkage of 5.7%, 8.9%, 0.3%, 2.9% and -1.5%, respectively. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in part, to the real estate market, which has been weakened by the recession. While we believe our lending market area has not been as adversely affected by the real estate crisis as some other areas of the country, real estate values and demand have softened and we remain vulnerable to adverse changes in the real estate market. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could negatively affect our financial results. Finally, negative developments in the securities markets could adversely affect the value of our securities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continually review and analyze our internal control over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. As part of that process we discovered and disclosed material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control. Material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. 36 Table of Contents As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal control, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure control. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with The NASDAQ Capital Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Financial Reform Legislation Recently Enacted by Congress Will Result in New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) in 2010. This new law significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Also effective one year after the date of enactment was a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet-to-be-written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency subsequently approved these proposed rules on June 12, 2012. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital 37 Table of Contents reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III was initially intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013, however on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of financial institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to Home Federal under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Home Federal. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Home Federal could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. The expiration of full FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our costs and reduce our liquidity levels. Increased FDIC insurance assessments could significantly increase our expenses. On December 31, 2012, full FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts is scheduled to expire. Full insurance coverage does not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. The reduction in FDIC insurance on other types of accounts may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. This may reduce our liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to maintain our liquidity by retaining deposits. In addition, the FDIC may increase deposit insurance fees and expenses. In particular, if our regulators issue downgraded ratings of Home Federal in connection with their examinations, the FDIC could impose significant additional fees and assessments on us. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In our five-county market area, including Boyd, Greenup and Lawrence Counties in Kentucky and Lawrence and Scioto Counties in Ohio, there are a total of 20 commercial bank and savings institution competitors, along with 10 credit 38 Table of Contents union competitors. The commercial banks and savings institutions operate a total of 91 branch offices in those counties, containing $2.5 billion of deposits. The commercial bank and savings institution competitors include those larger institutions with nationwide or regional operations, and local community institutions such as us that serve the local markets only. The credit union competitors consist of local community based institutions with total deposits of approximately $0.6 billion. The asset size of the largest credit union competitor is approximately $244 million. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Home Federal Savings and Loan Association—Market Area” and “—Competition.” The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of new legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. We Depend On Our Management Team To Implement Our Business Strategy And Execute Successful Operations And We Could Be Harmed By The Loss Of Their Services. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. Our strategy and operations are directed by the senior management team. Any loss of the services of our president and chief executive officer or other members of our senior management team could impact our ability to implement our business strategy, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a financial institution, the classification of assets by a financial institution, and the adequacy of a financial institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the applicable laws, rules and regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Laws, rules and regulations may be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. 39 Table of Contents Changes in Accounting Standards Could Affect Reported Earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively. The Implementation of Stock-Based Benefit Plans May Dilute Your Ownership Interest. We intend to adopt one or more stock-based benefit plans, which will allow participants to be awarded shares of common stock (at no cost to them) and/or options to purchase shares of our common stock. If these stock-based benefit plans are funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, stockholders would experience a reduction in ownership interest. Although the implementation of the stock-based benefit plan will be subject to stockholder approval, historically, the overwhelming majority of stock-based benefit plans adopted by savings institutions and their holding companies following mutual-to-stock conversions have been approved by stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 