Item 1A. Risk Factors A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate loans and commercial loans, which expose us to increased risks and could adversely impact our earnings. Our executive management team has brought an increased focus to transitioning Farmington Bank’s balance sheet to be more like a commercial bank. At December 31, 2013, our commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans totaled $633.8 million and $252.0 million, or 34.9% and 13.9%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and business of the borrowers and the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial real estate and commercial loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Due to the economic recession and slow economic recovery, the real estate market and local economy has deteriorated. While the value of our real estate collateral securing loans has not been substantially impacted, further deterioration in the real estate market or a prolonged economic recovery could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from borrowers’ businesses, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. A continued deterioration in the economy and slow economic recovery may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. 34 All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to its rapid expansion and unseasoned nature. From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2013, our total loan portfolio increased by $639.9 million or 54.4%. As a result of this rapid expansion, a significant portion of our portfolio is unseasoned. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could adversely affect our future performance. Our lack of geographic diversification increases our risk profile. Our operations are located principally in Hartford County, Connecticut. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic and business conditions in this area. Deterioration in economic and business conditions in our service area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Recent declines in real estate values have impacted the collateral values that secure our real estate loans. The impact of these declines on the original appraised values of secured collateral is difficult to estimate. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loss and delinquency experience on different loan categories, and we evaluate existing economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance, which would decrease our net income. Our loan loss allowance for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $18.3 million and $17.2 million, respectively. Although we are currently unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, it may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. In addition, banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future changes in interest rates may reduce our profits which could have a negative impact on the value of our stock. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Farmington Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Farmington Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates paid on deposits, which may result in a decrease in our net interest income. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. We opened new branches in 2013 and 2012, which may result in losses at those branches initially as they generate new deposit and loan portfolios, and negatively impact our earnings. We opened new branch offices in East Hartford, CT and Newington, CT in 2013 and opened two new branch offices during 2012. Additionally, we opened our 22nd branch office in Rocky Hill, CT in January 2014 completing our strategic de novo branch expansion. Losses are expected in connection with these new branches for some time, as the expenses and costs of acquisition associated with them are largely fixed and are typically greater than the income earned at the outset as the branches build up their customer bases. No assurance can be given as to when, if ever, new branches will become profitable. 35 Strong competition within Farmington Bank’s market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. If our government banking deposits were lost within a short period of time, this could negatively impact our liquidity and earnings. Our government banking group provides deposit services to municipalities throughout Connecticut. Our municipal deposits as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $202.6 million, or 13.4%, and $160.9 million, or 12.1%, of our total deposits outstanding, respectively. If a significant amount of these deposits were withdrawn within a short period of time, it could have a negative impact on our short term liquidity and have an adverse impact on our earnings. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our business. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the vision, management and banking abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, who has substantial background and significant experience in banking and financial services, as well as personal contacts in Central Connecticut and the region generally. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The local and national economies remain weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn will adversely affect our business and financial results. During the past several years, general economic conditions continued to remain weak nationally as well as in our market area. Unemployment in Hartford County, Connecticut was 7.1% as of December 2013, compared to 7.4% for the State of Connecticut and 6.7% for the United States for the same period. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and single family home sales. Worsening of these conditions may adversely affect our business by materially decreasing our net interest income or materially increasing our loan losses. There can be no assurance that we will not be affected by the current economic conditions in a way we cannot currently predict or mitigate. Passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has increased our operational and compliance costs. On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This law significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies were given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws, weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, imposes certain capital requirements on financial institutions, eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, broadened the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments, required publicly traded companies to provide non-binding votes on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and directed the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives. As a result, our revenue may be reduced due to fee income limitations and we may be required to maintain higher minimum capital ratios. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, at a minimum they have increased our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 36 Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums and special assessments that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Connecticut Banking Commissioner, as Farmington Bank’s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board, as the regulator of FCB. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We face various technological risks that could adversely affect our business. We rely on communication and information systems to conduct business. Potential failures, interruptions or breaches in system security could result in disruptions or failures in our key systems, such as general ledger, deposit or loan systems. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting bank accounts and other customer information is on the rise. We have developed policies and procedures aimed at preventing and limiting the effect of failure, interruption or security breaches, including cyber attacks of information systems; however, there can be no assurance that these incidences will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be appropriately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches, including cyber attacks of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in the loss of business, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny or subject us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 37 