Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business. If any event related to these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs and has material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.We have limited visibility into future sales, which makes it difficult to forecast our future operating results.Because of our limited visibility into demand and channel inventory levels, our ability to accurately forecast our future revenues is limited. We sell our products and solutions globally to network operators, service providers and others, primarily through our network of distributors, resellers and OEMs. We do not employ a direct sales force. Sales to distributors accounted for 98%, 98% and 97% of our revenues in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Generally, our distributors are not obligated to promote our products and solutions and are free to promote and sell the products and solutions of our competitors. We sell our products to our distributors on a purchase order basis. Our distributors do not typically provide us with information about market demand for our products. While we have recently begun efforts to obtain inventory level and sales data from our distributors, this information has been difficult to obtain in a timely manner. Since we have only recently begun gathering this data, we cannot be certain that the information is reliable. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, and we may not be able to decrease our expenses to offset any shortfall in revenues. If we under forecast demand, our ability to fulfill sales orders will be compromised and sales may be deferred or lost altogether as potential purchasers seek alternative solutions.13Table of ContentsWe are subject to risks associated with our distributors’ inventory management practices. Should any of our distributors fail to resell our products in the period of time they anticipate or overstock inventories to address anticipated supply interruptions that do not occur, our revenues and operating results would suffer in future periods.Our distributors purchase and maintain their own inventories of our products and have no right to return the products they have purchased. We receive limited information from the distributors regarding their inventory levels and their sales of our products. If our distributors are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventories of our products, their financial condition may be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in our sales to these distributors. Distributors with whom we do business may face issues maintaining sufficient working capital and liquidity or obtaining credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, in the past we have experienced shortages of our products and our distributors have ordered quantities in excess of their anticipated near term demand to insulate themselves from supply interruptions. If, in the future, some distributors decide to purchase more of our products than are required to satisfy customer demand in any particular quarter, inventories at these distributors would grow. These distributors likely would reduce future orders until inventory levels realign with customer demand, which could adversely affect our revenues in a subsequent quarter.We rely on a limited number of distributors, which we consider to be our customers, and the loss of existing distributors, or a need to add new distributors may cause disruptions in our shipments, which may materially adversely affect our ability to sell our products and achieve our revenue forecasts and we may be unable to sell inventory we have manufactured to meet expected demand in a timely manner, if at all.Although we have a large number of distributors who sell our products, we sell a substantial majority of our products through a limited number of these distributors. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, Flytec Computers Inc. represented 13%, 16% and 20% of our revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, Streakwave Wireless Inc. represented 10% and 15% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to be dependent upon a limited number of distributors for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The portion of our revenues attributable to a given distributor may also fluctuate in the future. Termination of a relationship with a major distributor, either by us or by the distributor, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of revenues. We may not be successful in finding other suitable distributors on satisfactory terms, or at all, and this could adversely affect our ability to sell in certain geographic markets or to certain network operators and service providers.We have experienced, and may in the future experience, reduced sales levels and damage to our brand due to production of counterfeit versions of our products.In the past we have identified parties that are manufacturing and selling counterfeit products that we believe infringe our intellectual property rights. Sales of these counterfeit products were so substantial that our revenues were adversely affected while these products were in the market. Given the popularity of our products, we believe there is a high likelihood that counterfeit products or other products infringing on our intellectual property rights will continue to emerge. In order to combat counterfeit goods, we have and may continue to be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have taken steps to prevent further counterfeiting, we may not be able to detect or prevent all instances of infringement and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. If the quality of counterfeit products is not representative of the quality of our products, further damage could be done to our brand. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly in some foreign countries, where we could lose sales.Our operating results will vary over time and such fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and we expect them to continue to do so. Our revenues were $101.2 million, $83.2 million, $74.9 million, $61.5 million and $94.9 million and our net income was $28.8 million, $20.7 million, $17.8 million, $13.2 million and $28.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2013, March 31, 2013, December 31, 2012, September 30, 2012 and June 30, 2012, respectively. Because revenues for any future period are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty, you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any estimates we may provide to the market, the price of our common shares would likely decline substantially, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Our common stock has recently experienced substantial price volatility. For example, from our initial public offering through June 30, 2013, the price of our common stock ranged from $7.80 to $35.99 per share. Additionally, the stock market as a whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance.14Table of ContentsFactors that could cause our operating results and stock price to fluctuate include: •varying demand for our products due to the financial and operating condition of our distributors and their customers, distributor inventory management practices and general economic conditions;•shifts in our fulfillment practices including increasing inventory levels in attempt to decrease customer lead times;•inability of our contract manufacturers and suppliers to meet our demand;•success and timing of new product introductions by us and the performance of our products;•announcements by us or our competitors regarding products, promotions or other transactions;•lost sales due to the proliferation of counterfeit versions of our products;•costs related to the protection of our intellectual property rights, including defense against counterfeiting efforts;•costs related to responding to government inquiries related to regulatory compliance;•our ability to control and reduce product costs;•expenses of our entry into new markets, such as video surveillance microwave backhaul and machine-to-machine communications;•commencement of litigation or adverse results in litigation;•changes in the manner in which we sell products;•increased warranty costs;•volatility in foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates and/or the availability and cost of financing or other working capital to our distributors and their customers;•the impact of write downs of excess and obsolete inventory; and•the impact of any provisions for doubtful accounts.In addition, our business may be subject to seasonality; however, our recent growth rates and timing of product introductions may have masked seasonal changes in demand. Although we have not perceived seasonality to date, we may experience seasonality in the future.We could be adversely affected by unfavorable results from shareholder class action litigation.Beginning on September 7, 2012, two shareholder class action complaints were filed against us. On January 30, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an Amended Consolidated Complaint, which alleges claims under the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 on behalf of a purported class of those who purchased our common stock between October 14, 2011 and August 9, 2012 and/or acquired our stock pursuant to or traceable to the registration statement for our initial public offering. The consolidated complaint seeks, among other things, damages and interest, rescission, and attorneys’ fees and costs. Although we believe that the allegations in the complaint are without merit and we intend to vigorously contest the litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense. If one or more of these claims are resolved against us, our consolidated financial statements could be materially adversely affected.If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation could be impaired, which could reduce our revenues and increase our costs.We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. Our patent rights and the prospective rights sought in our pending patent applications may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage and they could be opposed, contested, circumvented or designed around by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. Any failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not be issued from any of our current or future applications.Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property, such as counterfeits of our products and unauthorized registration of our trademarks by third parties, has occurred in the past and may occur in the future without our knowledge. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value and potential application of our technology and could impair our ability to compete. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our products. We have initiated and may continue to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive and time-consuming, may place our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or narrowed in scope, and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and 15Table of Contentsmanagerial personnel, which could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us.Enforcement of our intellectual property rights abroad, particularly in China and South America, is limited and it is often difficult to protect and enforce such rights.The intellectual property protection regimes outside the United States are generally not as comprehensive as in the United States and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or manufactured or may be sold or manufactured in the future. In addition, effective enforcement of intellectual property rights in certain countries may not be available.In particular, the legal regimes relating to intellectual property rights in China and South America are limited and it is often difficult to effectively protect and enforce such rights in those countries. For example, the regulatory scheme for enforcing China’s intellectual property laws may not be as developed as regulatory schemes in other countries. Any advancement of an intellectual property enforcement claim through China’s regulatory scheme may require an extensive amount of time, allowing intellectual property infringers to continue largely unimpeded, to our detriment in the Chinese and other export markets. In addition, rules of evidence may be unclear, inconsistent or difficult to comply with, making it difficult to prove infringement of our intellectual property rights. As a result, enforcement cases may be difficult or ineffective.These factors may make it increasingly complicated for us to enforce our intellectual property rights against infringers, allowing them to harm our business in the Chinese or other export markets and in the United States by affecting the pricing for our products, reducing our sales, importing infringing products into the United States and diluting our brand or product quality reputation.If our contract manufacturers do not respect our intellectual property and trade secrets and if they or others produce competitive products reducing our sales or causing customer confusion, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our contract manufacturers operate in China, where prosecution of intellectual property infringement and trade secret theft is more difficult than in the United States. In the past, our contract manufacturers, their affiliates, their other customers or their suppliers have attempted to participate in efforts to misappropriate our intellectual property and trade secrets to manufacture our products for themselves or others without our knowledge. Although we attempt to enter into agreements with our contract manufacturers to preclude them from misusing our intellectual property and trade secrets, we may be unsuccessful in monitoring and enforcing our intellectual property rights. We have in the past found and expect in the future to find counterfeit goods in the market being sold as Ubiquiti products. Although we take steps to stop counterfeits, we may not be successfuland network operators and service providers who purchase these counterfeit goods may have a bad experience, our brand may be harmed, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our brand. Failure to maintain and enhance our brand would harm our ability to expand our base of distributors and the number of network operators and service providers who purchase our products.Maintaining and enhancing the Ubiquiti brand is critical to expanding our base of distributors, network operators, service providers, and VARs who purchase our products. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to develop and provide products and solutions that address the price-performance characteristics sought by these customers and end-users in underserved and underpenetrated markets, which we may not do successfully. If we fail to promote, maintain and protect our brand successfully, our ability to sustain and expand our business and enter new markets will suffer. Furthermore, if we fail to replicate the Ubiquiti Community in other markets that we seek to enter, the strength of our brand in and beyond those markets could be adversely affected. Our brand may be impaired by a number of other factors, including product malfunctions and exploitation of our trademarks or confusingly similar trademarks by others without permission. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks, we have been unsuccessful to date in obtaining a trademark registration from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the name of our company, Ubiquiti Networks, and as a result, we only have common law trademark rights in the United States in our name. Additionally, we have been subject to counterfeiting efforts which may damage our brand value. Any inability to effectively police our trademark rights against unauthorized uses by third parties could adversely impact the value of our trademarks and our brand recognition. If we fail to maintain and enhance the Ubiquiti brand, or if we need to incur unanticipated expenses to establish the brand in new markets, our operating results would be negatively affected from reduced sales and increased expenses related to strengthening our brand and our customers may be confused about which products are ours.16Table of ContentsThe networking, enterprise WLAN, video surveillance, microwave backhaul and machine-to-machine communications markets in which we compete are highly competitive and competitive pressures from existing and new products and solutions may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share.The networking, enterprise WLAN, video surveillance, microwave backhaul and machine-to-machine communications markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are influenced by competitive factors including: •price and total cost of ownership and return on investment associated with the solutions;•simplicity of deployment and use of the solutions;•ability to rapidly develop high performance integrated solutions;•reliability and scalability of the solutions;•market awareness of a particular brand;•ability to provide secure access to wireless networks;•ability to offer a suite of products and solutions;•ability to allow centralized management of the solutions; and•ability to provide quality product support.We expect competition to intensify in the future as other established and new companies introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter and as these markets continue to consolidate. In particular, companies with successful, widely known brands may price their products aggressively to compete with ours. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, end users may switch to other suppliers and our ability to sell our products may be impaired, which could harm our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth.A number of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do.As we move into new markets for different types of equipment, our brand may not be as well known as incumbents in those markets. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. In the integrated radio market, our competitors include Motorola and Trango, and in the 900MHz product market, Cisco and Proxim. In the embedded radio market, our competitors include Mikrotīkls and Senao. In the backhaul market, our competitors include Ceragon, DragonWave and Mikrotīkls. In the CPE market, our competitors include Mikrotīkls, Ruckus and TP-LINK. In the antenna market, we primarily compete with PCTEL and Radio Waves. In the enterprise WLAN market, we primarily compete with Ruckus, Aruba Networks and Cisco. In the video surveillance market, we primarily compete with Vivotek, Axis Communications and Mobotix. In the microwave backhaul market, we primarily compete with Cambium, DragonWave, SAF Tehnika and Trango. In the machine-to-machine communications market, we primarily compete with EnergyHub, Motorola and AlertMe.com. We expect increased competition from other established and emerging companies if our market continues to develop and expand. As we enter new markets, we expect to face competition from incumbent and new market participants.In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had offered individually. We expect this consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Many of the companies driving this consolidation trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and technologies. The competitors resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized technology companies and, consequently, willingness to purchase from such companies. These pricing pressures and competition from more comprehensive solutions could impair our ability to sell our products profitably, if at all, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations.New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position.The markets for development, distribution and sale of our products are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology and new products may make it more difficult for us to sell our products, and could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition.17Table of ContentsHistorically, large, integrated telecommunications equipment suppliers controlled access to the wireless broadband infrastructure equipment and network management software that could be used to extend the geographic reach of wireless internet networks. However, in recent years, network operators and service providers have been able to purchase wireless broadband infrastructure equipment and purchase and implement network management applications from distributors, resellers and OEMs. In addition, increased competition from providers of wireless broadband equipment may result in fewer vendors providing complementary equipment to our products, which could harm our business and revenues. Broadband equipment providers or system integrators may also offer wireless broadband infrastructure equipment for free or as part of a bundled offering, which could force us to reduce our prices or change our selling model to remain competitive. If there is a major shift in the market such that network operators and service providers begin to use closed network solutions that only operate with other equipment from the same vendor, we could experience a significant decline in sales because our products would not be interoperable with these proprietary standards.We may not be able to enhance our products to keep pace with technological and market developments, or develop new products in a timely manner or at competitive prices.The market for our wireless broadband networking equipment is emerging and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our ability to keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing network operator and service provider requirements and achieve product acceptance depends upon our ability to enhance our current products and continue to develop and introduce new product offerings and enhanced performance features and functionality on a timely basis at competitive prices. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce or deliver compelling products in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technologies or network operator and service provider expectations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results if end users fail to purchase our products. For example, if we are unable to achieve in a timely manner and keep pace the same level of integration and plug and play functionality for our enterprise products that characterizes our airMAX product line, our ability to grow our end user base and achieve broad acceptance of our enterprise products could be adversely affected. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering staff and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of our products with evolving industry standards and protocols and competitive network management environments. Development and delivery schedules for our products are difficult to predict. We may fail to introduce new versions of our products in a timely fashion. If new releases of our products are delayed, our distributors may curtail their efforts to market and promote our products and network operators and service providers may switch to competing products, any of which would result in a delay or loss of revenues and could harm our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies and related products that we develop will be brought to market by us as quickly as anticipated or that they will achieve broad acceptance among network operators and service providers.We may become subject to warranty claims, product liability and product recalls.From time to time, we may become subject to warranty or product liability claims that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend these claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we compensate the affected network operator or service provider. We may also be the subject of product liability claims. Such claims could require a significant amount of time and expense to resolve and defend against and could also harm our reputation by calling into question the quality of our products. We also may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one or more of our products. For example, during the three months ended March 31, 2013 we recalled our Rocket Titanium products due to an identified manufacturing issue which was subsequently rectified. The process of identifying recalled products that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources and we may incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our network operators or service providers and harm to our reputation. Costs or payments made in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could cause our operating results to decline and harm our brand.Our distributors, network operators, service providers, VARs and system integrators may expect us to indemnify them for intellectual property infringement claims, damages caused by defective products and other losses.Our distributors, network operators, service providers and other parties may expect us to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our products, including as a result of intellectual property infringement, defective products, damages caused by defects and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software, although our agreements with them may not, in all cases, require us to provide this indemnification. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make may be substantial or unlimited and could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may in the future agree to defend and indemnify our distributors, network operators, service providers and other parties, irrespective of whether we believe that we have an obligation to indemnify them or whether we believe that 18Table of Contentsour services and products infringe the asserted intellectual property rights. Alternatively, we may reject certain of these indemnity demands, which may lead to disputes with a distributor, network operator, service provider or other party and may negatively impact our relationships with the party demanding indemnification or result in litigation against us. Our distributors, network operators, service providers and other parties may also claim that any rejection of their indemnity demands constitutes a material breach of our agreements with them, allowing them to terminate such agreements. If, as a result of indemnity demands, substantial payments are required, our relationships with our distributors, network operators, service providers and other parties are negatively impacted or if any of our material agreements is terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.If we lose the services of our founder and chief executive officer, Robert J. Pera, other key members of our management team or key research and development employees, we would be required to replace these individuals. We may not be able to smoothly transition and may incur additional expense to recruit and employ replacements.Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team and in particular, our founder and chief executive officer, Robert J. Pera. Our future performance will also depend on our ability to continue to retain our other senior management. We do not maintain key person insurance for any of our personnel, except for a minor policy with respect to Mr. Pera.Our business model relies in part on leanly staffed, independent and efficient research and development teams. Our research and development team is organized around small groups or individual contributors for a given platform and there is little overlap in knowledge and responsibilities. In the event that we are unable to retain the services of any key contributors, we may be unable to bring our products or product improvements to market in a timely manner, if at all, due to disruption in our development activities.Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our employees work for us on an at will basis. Competition for personnel is intense in the networking equipment industry, particularly for persons with specialized experience in areas such as antenna design and RF equipment. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us or our suppliers may cause us to incur substantial expenses to defend ourselves and could impair our ability to sell our products if an adverse outcome were to occur.Our commercial success depends in part upon us and our component suppliers not infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve intellectual property claims without major financial expenditures. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation and it is not uncommon for suppliers of certain components of our products, such as chipsets, to be involved in intellectual property-related lawsuits by or against third parties. Many industry participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property aggressively assert their rights. Our key component suppliers are often targets of such assertions, and we may become a target as well. In addition, the network operators and service providers, whom we agree in certain circumstances to indemnify for intellectual property infringement claims related to our products, may be targets of such assertions. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing or future third party intellectual property rights would require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities.There are numerous patents and patent applications in the United States and other countries relating to communications technologies, and many of our competitors and other parties have substantial patent portfolios in this area. We do not generally conduct searches for patents relating to our technologies or approach third parties to seek a license to their patents. Even if we were to conduct such searches we may not uncover all relevant patents and patent applications. We therefore cannot assure that our products, technologies and operations do not, and will not, infringe third party patents. We have received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties asserting intellectual property infringement and other related claims. In addition, if our revenues grow and our profile increases, the frequency and severity of these claims may increase. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves and demand indemnification from our suppliers, if appropriate, by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third party proprietary rights or to establish our own proprietary rights. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies and other third-party non-practicing entities that focus on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target our component suppliers, manufacturers, us, our distributors, members of our sales channels, our network operators and service providers, or other purchasers of our products. These companies typically have little or no product revenues and therefore our 19Table of Contentspatents may provide little or no deterrence against such companies filing patent infringement lawsuits against our component suppliers, manufacturers, us, our distributors, members of our sales channels, network operators and service providers, or other purchasers of our products. For example, we have received correspondence from certain patent holding companies who assert that we infringe certain patents related to wireless communication technologies. We believe that these patents are either invalid or not infringed by us. However, we cannot assure you that a court adjudicating a claim that we infringe these patents would rule in our favor should these patent holding companies file suit against us. We believe that in the event of a claim we may be entitled to seek indemnification from our suppliers. However, we cannot provide any assurances that if we seek such indemnification, we will receive it. At any time, any of these third parties could initiate litigation against us, or we may be forced to initiate litigation against them. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims can be time consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: •adversely affect our relationships with our current or future network operators and service providers or suppliers;•cause delays or stoppages in the shipment of our products, or cause us to modify or redesign our products;•cause us to incur significant expenses in defending claims brought against us, for which we may not be able to obtain indemnification, if applicable, from our suppliers;•divert management’s attention and resources;•subject us to significant damages or settlements;•require us to enter into settlements, royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms; or•require us to cease certain activities.Moreover, even if some of our contract manufacturers are obligated to indemnify us, these contract manufacturers may contest their obligations to indemnify us, or their available assets or indemnity obligation may not be sufficient to cover our losses.In addition to liability for monetary damages against us or, in certain circumstances, our network operators and service providers, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide certain of our products unless we obtain licenses from the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and we could, for example, be required to cease offering our products or be required to materially alter our products, which could involve substantial costs and time to develop.For information regarding our trademarks, see the risk factor above titled “Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our brand. Failure to maintain and enhance our brand would harm our ability to expand our base of distributors and the number of network operators and service providers who purchase our products.”We and our contract manufacturers purchase some components, subassemblies and products from a limited number of suppliers. The loss of any of these suppliers may substantially disrupt our ability to obtain orders and fulfill sales as we design in and qualify new components.We rely on third party components and technology to build and operate our products, and we rely on our contract manufacturers to obtain the components, subassemblies and products necessary for the manufacture of our products. Shortages in components that we use in our products are possible, and our ability to predict the availability of such components is limited. If shortages occur in the future, as they have in the past, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Unpredictable price increases of such components due to market demand may occur. While components and supplies are generally available from a variety of sources, we and our contract manufacturers currently depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for several components for our products. If our suppliers of these components or technology were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of networking equipment or were to discontinue providing such components and technology to us and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide our products would be impaired. We and our contract manufacturers generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with these suppliers. As a result, even if available, we and our contract manufacturers may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build our products in a timely manner. Therefore, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Our reliance on third party components and technology means that we may not be able to introduce new products or continue to sell existing products without obtaining and maintaining technology licenses from third parties. For example, we currently rely upon a license from Qualcomm Atheros, whose chipsets are incorporated in a majority of our products. This process is critical to our ability to manufacture our products. Obtaining and maintaining these licenses may be costly and may delay the introduction of such features and functionality, and these licenses may not be available or renewable on commercially favorable terms, or at all, and even if entered into, may in some circumstances be terminated. The inability to offer advanced features or 20Table of Contentsfunctionality, or a delay in our introduction of new products, may adversely affect demand for our products and consequently, materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We are dependent on Qualcomm Atheros for chipsets for our products and do not have short-term alternatives if Qualcomm Atheros were to terminate its agreement with us, which could cause us to be unable to fulfill short-term demand and delay our ability to fulfill orders.Substantially all of our products currently include chipsets from Qualcomm Atheros. Our license agreement with Qualcomm Atheros may be terminated for convenience at the end of the annual contract term which is September 1, 2014 upon 90 days prior written notice by either party. The termination of our license agreement with Qualcomm Atheros could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent we are unable to secure an adequate supply of chipsets from Qualcomm Atheros, we would be required to redesign our products to incorporate components from alternative sources, a process which would cause significant delays and would adversely impact our revenues. In accordance with the current terms of the agreement, Qualcomm Atheros may choose to terminate the agreement without cause at the end of the annual contract term by giving us at least 90 days prior written notice before September 1, 2014. We do not stockpile sufficient chipsets to cover the time it would take to re-engineer our products to replace the Qualcomm Atheros chipsets. Furthermore, if we sought a suitable second source for Qualcomm Atheros chipsets in our products, there can be no assurances that we would be able to successfully second source our chipsets on acceptable terms, if at all. In any event, our use of chipsets from multiple sources may require us to significantly modify our product designs to accommodate these different chipsets.We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce and test all of our products, and failure to successfully manage our relationships with these parties could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products.We retain contract manufacturers, which are primarily located in China, to manufacture and control quality of our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these contract manufacturers. Any significant change in our relationship with these manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract manufacturers on a purchase order basis. Our contract manufacturers are not otherwise required to manufacture our products for any specific period or in any specific quantity. We expect that it would take approximately three to six months to transition manufacturing and quality assurance services to new providers. Relying on contract manufacturers for manufacturing and quality assurance also presents significant risks to us, including the inability of our contract manufacturers to: •assure the quality of our products;•manage capacity during periods of volatile demand;•qualify appropriate component suppliers;•ensure adequate supplies of materials;•protect our intellectual property rights;•deliver finished products at agreed upon prices and schedules; and•safeguard consigned materials and finished goods.The ability and willingness of our contract manufacturers to perform is largely outside our control. For example, during mid-2009, the technology market was rebounding from the sharp economic contraction that was experienced in 2008. Many suppliers and contract manufacturers were unprepared for the speed of the rebound. This led to significant component shortages and capacity constraints at contract manufacturers. During this time, our contract manufacturers claimed difficulty in procuring components and extended our order lead times significantly, which forced us to extend the lead time for our distributors.From time to time, we may change contract manufacturers, which may disrupt our ability to obtain our products in a timely manner. We believe that our orders may not represent a material portion of our contract manufacturers’ total orders and, as a result, fulfilling our orders may not be a priority in the event our contract manufacturers are constrained in their abilities or resources to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. If any of our contract manufacturers suffers an interruption in its business, experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations or we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed, our revenues could become volatile and our cost of revenues may increase.21Table of ContentsWe recently retained the services of a third party logistics and warehousing provider in China. The failure or inability of this service provider to safeguard and to accurately segregate, record and report our inventory could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and operating results.Beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2012, we began using a third party logistics and warehousing provider in China to fulfill the majority of our worldwide sales. Prior to that, our shipments were mainly fulfilled by our contract manufacturers. Depending on the terms of our arrangements with the contract manufacturers, legal title to this inventory may belong to them or to us. We rely on this third party logistics and warehousing provider to accurately segregate and record our inventory for us and to report to us the receipt and shipments of our products. We also rely on our third party logistics and warehousing provider to efficiently manage and track the delivery of products from the warehouse. Further, we rely on our third party logistics provider to safeguard our inventory, which accounts for a vast majority of our inventory balance. If this service provider fails to safeguard and to accurately segregate and record our inventory or manage and track the delivery of products, the resulting product loss and/or administrative burden could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our third party logistics and warehousing provider in China may fail to deliver products to our customers in an accurate and timely manner, which could harm our reputation and operating results.We rely on our third party logistics and warehousing provider in China to accurately deliver on a timely basis our products to our customers. However, due to factors out of our control, the third party logistics provider could fail to deliver the correct product or to deliver products in a timely manner. Any delay in delivery of our products or inaccurate delivery of our products to our customers could create dissatisfaction among our customers and harm our reputation. Such failure to deliver products to our customers in an accurate and timely manner could also have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.We have recently increased our levels of inventory of finished products and are exposed to the risk of carrying excess or obsolete products.With the use of our third party logistics and warehousing provider, we have increased our levels of inventory of finished products and are exposed to the risk of carrying excess or obsolete products. We are also faced with the same risk with respect to the Qualcomm Atheros chipsets and other components necessary to ensure a continuous supply of finished products. If demand for competing or newer versions of our products accelerates more rapidly than we expect, we could be required to write-off excess products for which demand has eroded which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.We are subject to numerous U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and a substantial majority of our sales are into countries outside of the United States. Sales outside of the United States represented 75%, 76% and 70% of our revenues in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Although we did not intend to do so, we have violated certain of these laws in the past, and we cannot currently assess the nature and extent of any fines or other penalties, if any, that U.S. governmental agencies may impose against us or our employees for any such violations. Any fines, if materially different from our estimates, or other penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Sale of certain of our products into Iran, Cuba, Syria, the Sudan and North Korea is restricted or prohibited under U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws. In addition, certain of our products incorporate encryption components and may be exported from and outside the United States only with the required authorization or eligibility for a license exception. Until early 2010, we lacked sufficient familiarity with the export control and sanctions laws and their applicability to our products. Our lack of sufficient familiarity was largely due to our lean corporate infrastructure, the inexperience of our management team in these matters and the fact that our products are manufactured outside the United States and most of our products never enter the United States. In early 2010, as a result of diligence undertaken in connection with the Summit transaction, we learned that our products could not be sold, directly or indirectly, into Iran and other countries subject to a U.S. embargo and we learned that some of our products were listed on the Commerce Control List in the EAR, and require authorization from the BIS, prior to export. We then began to evaluate the export controls and sanctions applicable to our product sales and to take steps to comply with these laws. For instance, we revised our standard form distribution agreements to clearly articulate the restrictions imposed by export control and sanctions laws governing business with embargoed countries, disabled downloads of our software by users in these countries, and obtained the required Commodity Classification Rulings for our encryption products as required by the EAR. In February 2011, our Audit Committee retained outside counsel to conduct a review of our export control compliance and possible sales of our products by third persons to embargoed countries. This review was conducted to fully respond to and cooperate with a request for information from OEE, relating to two foreign companies and the export classification of our products and to ensure that we were in compliance with the export control and sanctions laws. The review 22Table of Contentswas completed in April 2011 and we took the actions described below as a result of our review. In May 2011, we filed a disclosure report regarding our findings as a result of this review with OEE. In August 2011, we received a warning letter from the OEE indicating that the OEE had completed its investigation of us, was closing out the matter without issuing a penalty, had not referred the matters described below for criminal or administrative prosecution and closed the investigation of us. In June 2011, we also filed a voluntary self-disclosure with OFAC, the results of which are still pending.Transactions Involving Possible Sales of Products into IranAlthough we do not believe that we directly sold, exported or shipped our products into Iran or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo, we believe our products have been sold into Iran by third parties. Until early 2010, we did not prohibit our distributors from selling our products into Iran or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo.From 2008 to early 2010, we had a distribution arrangement with a distributor (“Distributor 1”), in the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”) that gave this distributor exclusive jurisdiction over eleven countries in the Middle East, including Iran, as well as authorization to sell worldwide. We had no sales to Distributor 1 in fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2013, and sales to Distributor 1 represented 4% and 6% of our revenues in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. We cannot determine which of our products Distributor 1 sold directly or indirectly to persons in Iran. At some point prior to February 2010, Distributor 1 requested that we list two resellers on our website as authorized resellers of our products in Iran and we did so. We removed these resellers from our website in late February 2010 upon learning of restrictions under the U.S. embargo.In early 2010, we began implementing policies prohibiting sales of our products into the countries subject to the U.S. embargo, revised our standard form distribution agreements to clearly articulate this policy and disabled downloads of our software by users in these countries. We also entered into a new distribution agreement with Distributor 1 that excluded Iran as one of its territories and contained explicit covenants that Distributor 1 would comply with U.S. export control and economic sanction laws, including a covenant not to sell our products into Iran.From March 2010 until February 2011, we continued doing business with Distributor 1 under the amended distribution agreement. However, we now believe that Distributor 1 continued to sell our products into Iran after February 2010 and that we overlooked emails from Distributor 1 that included information about Distributor 1’s possible activities related to shipping our products to Iran. In February 2011, we suspended sales of our products to Distributor 1 due to the information learned during our export control review that indicated Distributor 1 may still be selling products into Iran. Also, during our investigation we learned that from December 2009 through February 2011, another distributor, Distributor 2, was selling our products to a company in Iran. At the time of these transactions, we did not have a distribution agreement with Distributor 2 and we had not specifically instructed Distributor 2 that our products could not be sold into Iran. Distributor 2, a distributor in Europe, received orders from an Iranian entity, placed those orders with us and instructed us to ship the products to a third party in the UAE. As such, we believed the products’ final destination was the UAE. Our records indicate that we may have made up to 13 shipments to Distributor 2 involving an aggregate value of approximately $340,000 that may have been resold into Iran during this time. Prior to February 2011, we had not previously notified Distributor 2 of our prohibition against sales of our products into Iran. In March 2011, upon learning that it was receiving orders from a company in Iran, we notified Distributor 2 that the end customer was in Iran and of our prohibition on sales to Iran and also entered into a distribution agreement with Distributor 2. The agreement contains clear language requiring compliance with the export control and economic sanctions laws. We continue to sell products to Distributor 2, as we believe this issue has been resolved and these sales did not represent a material portion of Distributor 2's business with us.Export Classification of Our ProductsFollowing the Summit transaction, we began to research whether our products were subject to U.S. export controls and we hired outside counsel to assist us with this analysis. We learned that a number of our products, although they are foreign produced and do not enter into the United States, may be considered encryption items under the EAR and required an encryption review by BIS. In May 2010, we filed encryption reviews with BIS for our products, and we obtained the required Commodity Classification Rulings for our products between June 2010 and November 2010. We shipped our products prior to receiving these rulings and these shipments appear to have violated the EAR. In addition, we used incorrect export authorizations on our shipping documents even after we received the required Commodity Classification Rulings.Accordingly, prior to May 2010, we did not fully comply with applicable encryption controls in the EAR, despite having made foreign sales of such items, and continued to use incorrect export authorizations on shipping documents until February 2011, as we did not fully understand the scope of the requirements. In addition, throughout this period, we lacked an effective compliance program with respect to these laws. We have implemented a significant number of policies and procedures and continue to implement further policies and procedures that will help us to comply with these laws.23Table of ContentsInquiry from U.S. Department of Commerce’s Office of Export EnforcementIn January 2011, OEE contacted us to request that we provide information related to our relationship with a logistics company in the UAE and with a company in Iran, neither of which companies are Distributor 1 or Distributor 2, as well as information on the export classification of our products. As a result of this inquiry we, assisted by outside counsel, conducted a review of our export transactions from 2008 through March 2011 to not only gather information responsive to OEE’s request but also to review our overall compliance with export control and sanctions laws. We believe our products have been sold into Iran by third parties. We do not believe that we directly sold, exported or shipped our products into Iran or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo. However, until early 2010, we did not prohibit our distributors from selling our products into Iran or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo. In the course of this review we identified that two distributors may have sold Ubiquiti products into Iran. Our review also found that while we had obtained required Commodity Classification Rulings for our products in June 2010 and November 2010, we did not advise our shipping personnel to change the export authorizations used on our shipping documents until February 2011. During the course of our export control review, we also determined that we had failed to maintain adequate records for the five year period required by the EAR and the sanctions regulations due to our lack of infrastructure and because it was prior to our transition to our current system of record, NetSuite.In May 2011, we filed a self-disclosure statement with the BIS and OEE. In June 2011 we filed a self-disclosure statement with OFAC, regarding the compliance issues noted above. The disclosures address the above described findings and the remedial actions we have taken to date. However, the findings also indicate that both distributors continued to sell, directly or indirectly, our products into Iran during the period from February 2010 through March 2011 and that we received various communications from them indicating that they were continuing to do so. Since January 2011, we have cooperated with OEE and, prior to our disclosure filing, we informally shared with the OEE the substance of our findings with respect to both distributors. From May 2011 to August 2011, we provided additional information regarding our review and our findings to OEE to facilitate its investigation and OEE advised us in August 2011 that it had completed its investigation of us. In August 2011, we received a warning letter from OEE stating that OEE had not referred the findings of our review for criminal or administrative prosecution of us and closed the investigation without penalty.OFAC is still reviewing our voluntary disclosure. In our submission, we have provided OFAC with an explanation of the activities that led to the sales of our products in Iran and the failure to comply with the EAR and OFAC sanctions. Although our OFAC and OEE voluntary disclosures covered similar sets of facts that led the OEE to resolve the case with the issuance of a warning letter, OFAC may conclude that our actions resulted in violations of U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and warrant the imposition of penalties that could include fines, termination of our ability to export our products, and/or referral for criminal prosecution. The maximum civil monetary penalty for the violations is up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater, per violation. The penalties may be imposed against us and/or our management. Any such fines or restrictions may be material to our financial results in the period in which they are imposed. Also, disclosure of our conduct and any fines or other action relating to this conduct could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot predict when OFAC will complete its review or decide upon the imposition of possible penalties.We have taken actions designed to ensure that export classification information is distributed to the appropriate personnel in a timely manner and have adopted policies and procedures to promote our compliance with applicable export laws and regulations, including obtaining written distribution agreements with substantially all of our distributors that contain covenants requiring compliance with U.S. export control and economic sanctions law; notifying all of our distributors of their obligations and obtaining updated distribution agreements from distributors that account for approximately 99% of our distributor revenue in fiscal 2013. However we cannot be sure such actions will be effective. Additionally, our failure to amend all our distribution agreements and to implement more robust compliance controls immediately after the discovery of Iran-related sales activity in early 2010 may be aggravating factors that could impact the imposition of penalties imposed on us or our management. Further, should our efforts to ensure our compliance with applicable export laws and regulations not be sufficient in preventing our distributors from distributing our products into a country subject to a U.S. embargo or otherwise violating applicable export laws and regulations in the future, we could be subject to government investigations or penalties in the future. Any such penalties, if they occur, may be more severe in light of our prior violations discussed above. Based on the facts known to us to date, we recorded an expense of $1.6 million for this export compliance matter in fiscal 2010, which represents management’s estimated exposure for fines in accordance with applicable accounting literature. This amount was calculated from information discovered through our internal review and we deem this loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, we believe that it is reasonably possible that the loss may be higher, but we cannot reasonably estimate the range of any further potential losses. Should additional facts be discovered in the future and/or should actual fines or other penalties substantially differ from our estimates, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be materially negatively impacted.24Table of ContentsWe may also be subject to export control and economic sanctions laws of jurisdictions outside of the United States and a substantial majority of our sales are into countries outside of the United States. If we fail to comply with those foreign export control and economic sanctions laws, we may be unable to sell our products and our business would be materially and adversely affected and our revenues would decline.In addition to U.S. export regulations, various other countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and products, and these laws could limit our ability to distribute our products or our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in other countries, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the transfer of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could negatively impact our ability to sell our products to existing customers or the ability of our current and potential distributors, network operators and service providers outside the United States.We base our production on our forecasts of future sales. If these forecasts are materially inaccurate, we may overbuild product, which we may be unable to sell in a timely manner or at all, or we may underbuild product, which may impair our customer relationships.Our distributors typically provide us with purchase orders for delivery within 60 days. We provide our contract manufacturers forecasts of up to approximately five months of demand for long lead time components. To the extent our forecasts are materially inaccurate because we do not receive anticipated purchase order volume, we may under or overbuild product. We may over or under forecast the distributors’ actual demand for our products or the mix of products and the components associated with the building of our products. We have experienced volatility in orders with limited advanced notice, and we expect such volatility to occur in the future. If we are unable to meet any increases in demand, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected and our reputation with our customers may be damaged. Conversely, if we over forecast demand, we may build excess inventory which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We have limited experience and personnel to manage our supply chain, our contract manufacturers and our third party logistics services provider, which may cause us to experience lower product margins, impair product quality and result in our inability to fulfill demand for our products and solutions.We rely on our contract manufacturers to produce and test all of our products. We also rely on our contract manufacturers to obtain the components, subassemblies and products necessary for the manufacture of our products. We have limited experience and personnel to manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers and our supply chain. Inaccurately forecasting our demand for key components, including the Qualcomm Atheros chipsets, could materially adversely affect our ability to build our products in a timely manner and our margins could decline. Any failure by us to effectively and proactively manage these relationships and activities could result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we were required or choose to transition some of our supply chain activities from our contract manufacturers to within our organization, we would be required to hire more experienced personnel and develop more supply chain policies and procedures. This transition could be lengthy and could cause significant delays in the production, testing and shipment of our products, any of which may result in material adverse effects, including an increase in our costs and our ability to ship our products and solutions. We cannot assure you that we would ever be able to effectively complete any such transition.We have significantly increased our transactional sales volumes in recent periods, and if we fail to effectively manage the challenges associated with this transaction volume growth, we may experience difficulty in properly fulfilling customer orders and may incur increased operational costs.Over the past several years we have and continue to expand our product offerings, the number of customers we sell to and the number of contract manufacturers we utilize to produce our products. Failure to effectively manage the increased logistical complexities associated with this expansion would make it difficult to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner and could lead to customer dissatisfaction. Further, we may need to increase costs to add personnel, upgrade or replace our existing reporting systems as well as improve our business processes and controls. Failure to effectively manage any of these logistical challenges would adversely impact our business performance and operating results.25Table of ContentsWe rely on the Ubiquiti Community to generate awareness of, and demand for, our products. If participation in the Ubiquiti Community decreases materially, or if negative information, justified or otherwise, spreads quickly through the community, we would need to incur substantial additional expenses to generate awareness of, and demand for, our products.We believe a significant portion of our growth to date has been driven by the diverse and actively engaged Ubiquiti Community and our business model is predicated on the assumption that the Ubiquiti Community will continue to be actively engaged. Given our lack of a direct sales force and limited marketing expenditures, the marketing model enabled by the Ubiquiti Community is central to the success of our business but is ultimately outside of our control. In light of the rapid spread of information within the Ubiquiti Community and the material influence such community has over product adoption by network operators and service providers, any negative information about us or our products, whether or not justified, could quickly and materially decrease demand for our products and be difficult for us to overcome. If the members of the Ubiquiti Community were to reject our products and solutions or adopt competitors’ products on a broad basis, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected because we would need to incur substantial additional expenses to generate awareness of, and demand for, our products.We rely on the Ubiquiti Community to provide network operators and service providers with support to install, operate and maintain our products. Any inaccurate information regarding our products that is spread by the Ubiquiti Community or lack of member participation with respect to particular products could lead to a poor user experience or dissatisfaction with our products.As we offer limited technical support for our products, we rely on the Ubiquiti Community to provide assistance and, in many cases documentation, to network operators and service providers for the installation, operation and maintenance of our products. Because we do not generate or control the information provided through the Ubiquiti Community, inaccurate information regarding the installation, operation and maintenance of our products could be promulgated through forum postings by members of the Ubiquiti Community. Inaccurate information could lead to a poor customer experience or dissatisfaction with our products, which could negatively impact our reputation and disrupt our sales. Although we moderate and review forum postings to learn of reported problems and assess the accuracy of advice provided by the Ubiquiti Community, as our operations continue to grow, we may not have adequate time or resources to adequately monitor the quality of Ubiquiti Community information.We rely on the Ubiquiti Community to provide our engineers with valuable feedback central to our research and development processes and if the members of the Ubiquiti Community were to stop providing feedback, our internal research and development costs could increase.We rely on the Ubiquiti Community to provide rapid and substantive feedback on the functionality and effectiveness of our products. The insights, problems and suggestions raised by the Ubiquiti Community enable our engineers to quickly resolve issues with our existing products and improve functionality in subsequent product releases. For example, we developed airSync (part of the airMAX platform) in response to collocation interference issues that were described in forum postings by members of the Ubiquiti Community. If the members of the Ubiquiti Community were to become less engaged or otherwise stopped providing valuable, timely feedback, our internal research and development costs and our time to market would increase, which could cause us to incur additional expenses or make our products less attractive to network operators and service providers.Our profitability may decline as we expand into new product areas.We receive a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of outdoor wireless networking equipment. We have limited experience in selling our products outside of our distribution model. As we expand into new product areas, such as enterprise WLAN, video surveillance equipment, wireless backhaul and machine-to-machine communications, we may not be able to compete effectively with existing market participants and may not be able to realize a positive return on the investment we have made in these products or services. Entering these markets may result in increased product development costs and our new products may have extended time to market relative to our current products. If our introduction of a new product is not successful or we are not able to achieve the revenues or margins we expect, our operating results may be harmed and we may not recover our product development and marketing expenditures. We may also be required to add a direct sales force and customer support personnel to market and support new or existing products, which would require us to accept substantially lower product margins or increase our operating expenses. Adding a direct sales force or customer support personnel could reduce our operating income and may not be successful.26Table of ContentsIf we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (”Section 404”) requires our management to furnish a report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expense and to devote significant resources to Section 404 compliance. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual and interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the event that our management or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting contains a material weakness as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock.Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable government review of our tax returns, changes in our geographic earnings mix, or imposition of withholding taxes on repatriated earnings could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results.We conduct operations in multiple jurisdictions and therefore our effective tax rate is influenced by the amounts of income and expense attributed to each such jurisdiction. If such amounts were to change so as to increase the amounts of our net income subject to taxation in higher tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. Historically, we have earned a significant amount of our operating income from outside the United States in low tax rate jurisdictions. The continued availability of these rates is dependent on how we conduct our business operation across all tax jurisdictions. We are subject to periodic audits or other reviews by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our activities and there is a risk that tax authorities could challenge our assertion that we have conducted our business operations appropriately in order to benefit in these lower tax rate jurisdictions. In addition, there are possible tax proposals that are being considered by the U.S. Congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could affect our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets or our other tax liabilities. We cannot predict the form or timing of potential legislative changes, but any newly enacted tax law could have a material adverse impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In the event of an unfavorable outcome, this may result in additional tax liabilities or other adjustments to our historical results. In addition, we may determine that it is advisable from time to time to repatriate earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries under circumstances that could give rise to imposition of potentially significant withholding taxes by the jurisdictions in which such amounts were earned and substantial tax liabilities in the United States. In addition, we may not receive the benefit of any offsetting tax credits, which also could adversely impact our effective tax rate. As of June 30, 2013, we held $210.4 million of our $227.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in accounts of our subsidiaries outside of the United States and we will incur significant tax liabilities if we were to repatriate those amounts.Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made.The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision.The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals.We are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service in the United States and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.27Table of ContentsShould additional taxes be assessed as a result of new legislation, an audit or litigation; if our effective tax rate should change as a result of changes in federal, international or state and local tax laws; if we are found to not be in compliance with tax regulations; or if we were to change the locations where we operate, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made, and potentially to future periods as well.Furthermore, our provision for income tax could increase as we expand our international operations, adopt new products, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of acquisitions, changing tax laws, expiring rulings, and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements.Our operating expenses are increasing as we make expenditures to enhance and expand our operations in order to support additional growth in our business and public company reporting and compliance obligations.Over the past several years, we have increased our expenditure on infrastructure to support our anticipated growth and as a result of our becoming a public company. We are continuing to make significant investments in information systems, hiring more administrative personnel, using more professional services and expanding our operations outside the United States. We intend to make additional investments in systems and personnel and continue to expand our operations to support anticipated growth in our business. In addition, we may determine the need in the future to build a direct sales force to market and sell our products or provide additional resources or cooperative funds to our distributors. Such changes to our existing sales model would likely result in higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of our revenues. We expect our increased investments to adversely affect operating income. As a result of these factors, we expect our operating expenses to increase.We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively and develop and implement appropriate control systems, our business and financial performance may suffer.We have substantially expanded our overall business, number of distributors and contract manufacturers, headcount and operations in recent periods. We have made investments in our information systems and significantly expanded our operations outside the United States, including an expansion of our research and development activities in Lithuania and Taiwan. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Our business model reflects our decision to operate with minimal infrastructure and low support and administrative headcount, so risks related to managing our growth are particularly salient and we may not have sufficient internal resources to adapt or respond to unexpected challenges. As a result of our focus on managing our rapid growth, we may have not allocated sufficient resources to complying with applicable regulatory and other requirements, such as spectrum operating regulations, export and embargoed countries regulations and the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and our development of infrastructure designed to identify and monitor our compliance with these regulatory and other compliance obligations is at an early stage. For example, in February 2011 we hired our first employee charged with complying with spectrum use requirements and we hired a chief counsel in May 2011 and a general counsel in March 2012. Although we have put certain policies and procedures in place in line with the establishment of a chief financial officer position, certain of these policies have been adopted and our procedures have changed and we have limited staff responsible for their implementation and enforcement. For example, we have put in place procedures to verify foreign buyers against U.S. disqualified persons lists and to identify the need for export licenses based on proposed bills of material for new products. Furthermore, our employees who have the most contact with our distributors or who are involved with order entry have attended training regarding export controls sponsored by the BIS. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, or if our control systems do not operate effectively, our business and operating results will suffer.A large percentage of our research and development operations are conducted in Taiwan, Lithuania, Illinois, New York and Russia, and our ability to introduce new products and support our existing products cost effectively depends on our ability to manage these disparate development sites successfully.Our success depends on our ability to enhance current products and develop new products rapidly and cost effectively. We currently have a number of our research and development personnel in Taiwan, Lithuania, Illinois, New York and Russia. In addition to our corporate headquarters in California, we must successfully allocate product development activities across the various development centers and manage them in such a manner as to meet our time to market windows while maintaining product consistency and quality. We could incur unexpected costs or delays in product development at these remote facilities that could impair our ability to meet market windows or cause us to forego certain new product opportunities.28Table of ContentsWe rely on third parties for financial and operational services essential to our ability to manage our business. A failure or disruption in these services would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively.We currently use NetSuite to conduct our order management and financial processes. The availability of this service is essential to the management of our business. As we expand our operations, we expect to utilize additional systems and service providers that may also be essential to managing our business. Although the systems and services that we require are typically available from a number of providers, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement these relationships. Therefore, our ability to manage our business would suffer if one or more of our providers suffer an interruption in their business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their operations, or we have to change or add additional systems and services. We may not be able to control the quality of the systems and services we receive from third party service providers, which could impair our ability to implement appropriate internal controls over financial reporting and may impact our business, operating results and financial condition.Increased debt levels could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.As of June 30, 2012 we had $29.6 million of debt related to a term loan with East West Bank. Additionally, in August 2012 we increased the term loan facility to $50.0 million and entered into a revolving line of credit for up to another $50.0 million from East West Bank and U.S. Bank under a new loan agreement which replaced our prior loan agreement with East West Bank. As of June 30, 2013, our balance outstanding under these facilities was $76.3 million.Our increased debt level could have important consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;•requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged.We also may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.A significant amount of our cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts of our subsidiaries outside the United States. If we are required to bring cash into the United States to meet our future funding obligations, we would have to pay the attendant high tax rates or seek other available funds.We have significant operations outside the United States. As of June 30, 2013, we held $210.4 million of our $227.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in accounts of our subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although we believe that the combination of our existing United States cash balances and future United States operating cash flows are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations, our expenses in the United States could increase faster than expected. If these sources of cash were insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to bring cash into the United States and pay the attendant high tax rates or seek other available funding sources which could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition or stock price.Failure to comply with the FCPA, and similar laws associated with our activities outside the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.As a substantial majority of our revenues is and will be from jurisdictions outside of the United States, we face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payment to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by us and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, such as the UK Bribery Act. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, which represent our principal markets, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other laws and regulations. Although we have implemented a company policy requiring our employees and consultants to comply with the FCPA and similar laws, we have a limited number of employees engaged in sales so we have not conducted formal FCPA compliance training. We have not engaged in training of our distributors and resellers and are in the process of amending our distributor agreements to provide clear requirements for our 29Table of Contentsdistributors’ and resellers’ compliance with U.S. laws, including the FCPA, therefore there can be no assurance that all of our employees, and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of FCPA and related policies could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition.Our products rely on the availability of unlicensed Radio Frequency ("RF") spectrum and if such spectrum were to become unavailable through overuse or licensing, the performance of our products could suffer and our revenues from their sales could decrease.Our products operate in unlicensed RF spectrum, which is used by a wide range of consumer devices such as cordless phones, baby monitors, and microwave ovens, and is becoming increasingly crowded. If such spectrum usage continues to increase through the proliferation of consumer electronics and products competitive with ours, the resultant higher levels of clutter and interference in the bands of operation our products use could decrease the effectiveness of our products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and our business could be further harmed if currently unlicensed RF spectrum becomes licensed in the United States or elsewhere. Network operators and service providers that use our products may be unable to obtain licenses for RF spectrum at reasonable prices or at all. Even if the unlicensed spectrum remains unlicensed, existing and new government regulations may require we make changes in our products. For example, to provide products for network operators and service providers who utilize unlicensed RF spectrum, we may be required to limit their ability to use our products in licensed RF spectrum. The operation of our products by network operators or service providers in the United States or elsewhere in a manner not in compliance with local law could result in fines, operational disruption, or harm to our reputation.The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses caused by undetected defects or bugs, which could reduce the market acceptance of our new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect our operating costs.Our products may contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have focused, and intend to focus in the future, on getting our new products to market quickly. Due to our rapid product introductions, defects and bugs that may be contained in our products may not yet have manifested. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, defects and bugs. For example we announced a recall of our Titanium Rocket products in the quarter ended March 31, 2013. If any of our products contains material defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and network operators or service providers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing network operators or service providers and attract new network operators or service providers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our distributors. If any of these problems is not found until after we have commenced commercial production and distribution of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our network operators, service providers or others. As a result, our operating costs could be adversely affected.Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information.We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology and trade secrets. In order to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently discover or obtain trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to determine and enforce the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.Although we primarily rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our trade secrets, we have failed to obtain such agreements from certain of our employees and third parties due to administrative oversights, including those who participated in the development of certain of our products. Our employment policies require these former employees to continue to protect our trade secrets and to assign to us any intellectual property related to their activities on our behalf. However, we may have difficulty enforcing these rights, which could reduce our competitive differentiation and result in lost sales and customer confusion.30Table of ContentsWe use open source software in our products that may subject our firmware to general release or require us to re-engineer our products and the firmware contained therein, which may cause harm to our business.We use open source software in our products, including in connection with our proprietary software, and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary firmware or other software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release our proprietary source code publicly or license such source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Open source license terms relating to the disclosure of source code in modifications or derivative works to the open source software are often ambiguous and few if any courts in jurisdictions applicable to us have interpreted such terms. As a result, many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. We currently disclose or plan to disclose the source code for certain of our proprietary software in an effort to comply with the terms of the licenses applicable to the open source software that we use, and we believe that such disclosure represents the entirety of our source code disclosure obligations under these licenses. However, if we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our firmware or other software, discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely increase our expenses and delay our ability to release our products for sale.Our business is susceptible to risks associated with operations outside of the United States.As of June 30, 2013 we had international operations in Hong Kong, Taiwan, China, Lithuania and Russia. We also sell to distributors outside the United States and for fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, our revenues from sales outside the United States were 75%, 76% and 70%, respectively. Our operations outside the United States subject us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of U.S. laws applicable to export controls, foreign operations, foreign laws and different legal standards;•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;•counterfeiting of our products or infringement on our intellectual property rights by third parties;•difficulties in managing the staffing of remote operations;•potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates;•dependence on distributors in various countries with different pricing policies, inventory management and forecasting practices;•reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•demand for reliable wireless broadband networks in those countries;•requirements that we comply with local telecommunication regulations in those countries;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexity;•political, social and economic instability in some jurisdictions; and•terrorist attacks and security concerns in general.If any of these risks were to come to fruition, it could negatively affect our business outside the United States and, consequently, our operating results. Additionally, operating in markets outside the United States requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability.Our contract manufacturers, shipping points and certain administrative and research and development operations are located in areas likely to be subject to natural disasters or other events that could stop us from having our products made or shipped or could result in a substantial delay in our production or development activities.Our manufacturing capacity may be reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities because our manufacturing, assembly, testing and shipping contractors are all located in southern China, the majority of our products are shipped from China and we 31Table of Contentshave research and development offices in Taiwan, China, Lithuania, Russia, New York, Illinois and California. Our principal executive offices are also located in California. The risk of earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters in these geographic areas is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. Southern China and Taiwan are also subject to typhoons and other Pacific storms. Earthquakes, fire, flooding or other natural disasters in California, southern China or Taiwan, or political unrest, war, labor strikes, work stoppages or public health crises, in countries where our or our contractors’ facilities are located could result in the disruption of our development, manufacturing, assembly, testing or shipping capacity. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in product development or shipments of our products until we are able to shift our development, manufacturing, assembly or testing from the affected contractor to another third party vendor or our research and development activities to another location. We cannot assure you that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all.New regulations or changes in existing regulations related to our products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business.Products that involve electromagnetic emissions are subject to regulation in the United States and the other countries in which we do business. In the United States, various federal agencies including the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies have promulgated regulations that concern the use of electromagnetic emissions standards. Member countries of the EU and other countries have enacted similar standards concerning electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility and emissions standards. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome, and we may be unable to ship our products or they may cost substantially more to produce, which would reduce our revenues and increase our cost of revenues.Government regulations designed to protect consumer privacy may make it difficult for us to sell our products.Our products may transmit and store personal information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information that is collected, stored and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage and transmission of personal information, we may face unknown requirements that pose compliance challenges in new geographic markets that we seek to enter. Such variation could subject us to costs, delayed product launches, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth.As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of personal information. These and other privacy concerns could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our attempts to protect the privacy of customer data may fail if our encryption is inadequate or fails to operate as expected.We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to fund our operations.We may need to raise additional funds in the future. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, investors may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with covenants and secure that debt obligation with our assets. If additional financing is not available when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to scale back our operations or limit our production activities. As a result, we may not be able to expand our business, develop or enhance our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could result in lower revenues and reduce the competitiveness of our products.Our existing credit facilities preclude us from entering into additional credit agreements, other than in limited circumstances, and, as a result, we may be required to issue equity securities rather than obtain additional debt financing.If we are unable to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed.We have not made any acquisitions to date. In the future, we may make acquisitions to improve or expand our product offerings. Our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions. 32Table of ContentsMergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Any mergers and acquisitions we may pursue would involve numerous risks, including the following: •difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire, particularly in light of our lean organizational structure;•diversion of our management’s attention from normal daily operation of our business;•our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the brand equity of the businesses we acquire;•our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, particularly in light of the demands we place on individual contributors;•uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions;•our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we acquire;•insufficient revenues to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions;•our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate; and•our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies, particularly in light of our lean organizational structure.We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. Completing acquisitions could consume significant amounts of cash. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with covenants and secure that debt obligation with our assets.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.